Never before have I seen nor heard of anything of The Hours, directed by Stephen Daldry, until this week when I had to review this film for this assignment. Walking up to the vintage 70's video monitors of McHenry's video library, I subconsciously kept reminding myself that "Mrs. Dalloway said she would buy the flowers herself." When that first shot of the river appeared and I heard no mention of Mrs. Dalloway or her flowers, I just thought to myself that "maybe the director didn't like that opening line of the book." It wasn't until the voice over narration uttered the name "From, Virginia Woolf," did I realize that this was not a normal film rendition of "Mrs. Dalloway," (nor did I realize it was an actual rendition of a novel called The Hours until I watched the special features after the movie).

Coming into this with absolutely no knowledge of what this movie would be about, my film-hungry interest would spark the moment I realized that this movie was going to be taking place at 3 different times and locations with 3 completely different characters. Any movie that breaks away from the normal 3-point chronological narrative structure had to be somewhat intellectually stimulating. And it was. I was excited to find out that Virginia Woolf was going to be an actual movie character occupying Richmond, England in 1923. My excitement even doubled when I found out that not only will the author be represented in this story, but also a 1923 Los Angeles reader of Mrs. Dalloway as well as a modern 2001 New York version of Mrs. Dalloway the character.

This structural technique played off well in the telling of these 3 women's stories. By breaking the story up this way, it allowed me, the viewer, to constantly connect Woolf's life to those of her own characters. By cutting between England, Los Angeles, and New York, it helped build an understanding for Woolf's reasons as to why she wrote Mrs. Dalloway the way she did. It's a tool that helps us visually connect themes discussed in the book and in the movie. For example, with the theme of the definition of insanity, I was able to gain a more thorough understanding of the relationship between Septimus and his author. Not only do we get to see the reflection of Woolf through Septimus through this movie, but we also get to see different representations and versions of Septimus. We constantly see Septimus through the movie's characters of Woolf, The Hour's Richard, Laura Brown, and in some ways even Clarissa Vaughn and her somewhat too trivial personality.

Through this structure, we're not only able to gain a better understand on Virginia Woolf in relation to her characters in Mrs. Dalloway, but we're also able to see the difference in society during different times and locations. In the movie, each of the 3 women deals with the theme of homosexuality. In Virginia Woolf's story, she kisses and is attracted to Vanessa Belle. The same goes for Laura Brown and her intimate contact with Kitty Barlowe. With Clarissa Vaughn, she is having an open lesbian relationship with Sally Lester. Within these intimate scenes, we sense that within Woolf's time era, it would've been definitely socially unacceptable for a woman to kiss another woman. The same situation would go for Brown's time era. But with Vaughn's time era, we see that it is more socially acceptable to have homosexual relationships. Also within these scenes, we are also able to see different versions of Mrs. Dalloway's Sally Senton.

After watching the special features on the novel, The Hours, I felt that this movie rendered the novel very well. Not only did the structure of the film narrative stay true to the novel, but it also allowed Virginia Woolf readers to connect the author to her characters. This movie was splendid in all other filmic aspects as well. It was visually stunning, especially through the changes in color schemes in each different story in order to represent the mood of that story. The acting was at its best; never did the acting distract me from the story. And the story itself was amazing; it built its own suspense just through the viewer trying to figure out how all these stories will somehow connect.