If you were a prep, J.V. jock, burnout, sexually active band geek, or someone that just wanted to fit in while in high school, this movie has a place for you. Mean Girls centers around Cady Heron (Lindsay Lohan), a teenage girl home-schooled in Africa until her junior year of high school after her parents decide that she needs to be socialized. She goes through the typical trials and tribulations of social life throughout high school with the "plastics," the popular crowd.

The movie was written by Tina Fey, a Saturday Night Live alum, and one of the stars of the movie. She has written a commentary on teenage life in high school. One of the things covered in the movie is the idea of popularity and what it represents to youth. High school popularity seems to equate to clothes, make-up, thinness, and money. In one scene, the head of the plastics has gained weight and is trying on dresses for the dance. She is struggling to get the dress on and asks for a bigger size. The sales clerk replies, "Sorry, we only carry sizes 1, 3, and 5. You could try Sears." The plastics also have a "rulebook" of what is appropriate to wear to school each week. They feel the need to look made up every day. At one point Cady comments, "I used to think there was just fat and skinny. But apparently there's lots of things that can be wrong on your body." The film also addresses the issue of cliques. The beginning of the film starts out with a friend describing the seating in the cafeteria. Each group is labeled and described in five words or less. Towards the end of the movie, the junior girls are given an impromptu workshop on how to treat each other with more respect. Fey points out that all teenage girls are insecure and go through mostly the same problems. Another issue addressed at the workshop is the usage of terms such as "skank, ho, and slut." Throughout the movie, leading up to this scene, these terms are used often, and mostly by young females. Fey points out, "Well, I don't know who wrote this book, but you all have got to stop calling each other sluts and whores. It just makes it OK for guys to call you sluts and whores." The movie is rated PG-13 for sexual content, language, and some teen partying. While this movie has some risqué material, it has several underlying messages that can actually be educational for children and parents. This messages include how to treat people with respect, responsible decision-making, and the roles played in high school.

This is an excellent movie for parents and teenagers to watch together. Not only will it entertain both, but will help to create a useful conversation about the issues in teenage life.