Transformers is one of those summer blockbuster movies that you can't miss. It was action packed and loads of fun. Sure the story was confusing and some of the actors only secondary to all the transforming alien robot clans, but it all seemed to work because the film never takes itself too seriously.

Two alien robot clans land on Earth and do battle over an Allspark which is a magic cube of some kind which grants unlimited power to whoever possesses it. You have the heroic Autobots and their leader Optimus Prime, and then you have the evil Decepticons and their leader Megatron. I could go into more detail about how this Allspark ended up on earth, but it would take way too long. If you go and see the movie, it is explained in detail anyway, so I don't believe I need to explain it here.

Anyway our main star in the film, outside the special effects and the robots, is none other then Shia Labeouf who was the lead man in the suspense thriller Disturbia which was out earlier this year. He plays Sam Witwicky, and like he did with Disturbia brings a lot of humor and wit to Transformers as well. His costar is the hot and sexy Megan Fox who becomes his love interest and also knows a thing or two about car engines. There is also support from big actors Jon Voight, John Torturro, and Tyrese Gibson as well as comic relief from Kevin Dunn and Julie White who play parents Ron and Judy Witwicky. What these other actors offer may not be great, but it helps to keep the movie from ever being just a one dimensional action packed thriller loaded with special effects and nothing else.

The special effects are in fact the best I've ever seen. They even rival those of Spiderman 3, and may even go beyond that early summer blockbuster which I was disappointed with. Michael Bay keeps the action moving and only slows down in his attempts for humor which actually work. Bumblebee, the Camaro that Sam actually buys, is comic relief in itself as one of the Autobots which seems to play classic rock songs at just the right time to mirror what Sam is actually thinking.

If you were a fan of the Transformer toys back in the 80s, I think you'll like the movie. Even if you weren't a fan, I still suggest you see the film because it is quite entertaining. I will give it an 8 out of 10.