The movie is technically clever, well-acted and beautifully photographed - but that's where the good stuff ends.

The point of view of this film is that people in the 1950s were stupid, complacent, unaware and uncaring of the world outside their immediate environs. Not so. Furthermore, the film would have the viewer believe that if one drops all sexual inhibitions, whether you're a teenager or a middle aged wife and mother - only then will you be fulfilled. Again, not so. That's how we got the real life screw-ups that show up with Jerry Springer, Maury and Montel on TV every day of the week.

To put this film in a historical context, the 50s were really a breathing space for America after saving the world from the Nazis and the Japanese in World War II just a few years before. In the 1950s, the United States was heavily involved in rebuilding those parts of the world devastated by a war they did not start.

Before that, Americans had struggled through 12 years of severe economic hardship known as The Great Depression (effectively 1929-1941).

In the 1950s, middle America was getting back on its financial feet and raising families. There was peace and the beginning of prosperity for the first time in many years. The U.S. was not filled with innocent, stupid teenagers. High school graduation rates were far higher then than now. The economy was good and unemployment was low. The polio vaccine was developed and cures for other ailments were in the works. Rock and Roll had its beginnings and the space exploration program was started. Civil rights changes were also emerging. For most people it was a very good time. 

Fast forward 40 years and look at today's crime stats, divorce rates, incurable STDs and high percentage of unwed mothers and consider whether or not the more moralistic 1950s were not a better time. Too many young people look like idiots with their tattoos and piercings and dressing like bums or whores. When did ripped, over-sized jeans falling off your backside become a positive fashion statement? 

More importantly today, consumption and greed are rampant. The U.S. has lost millions of manufacturing jobs and the borders are wide open driving down wages. It used to be a coveted privilege to emigrate here - now it's a catch and release program at best and English is becoming an optional language. Standards in everything are eroding.

Look at the family sitcoms of the late 1990s like Rosanne, Malcolm in the Middle vs. Leave It To Beaver of the late 50s early 60s and consider where you would rather be.

Pleasantville is a movie with little understanding and appreciation of the period in American history that it attempts to belittle by its revisionist portrayal.

This film is not funny, witty nor insightful. I'm not sure what it was supposed to be.