Let me start of by saying that if you've played of the game (either the original or the sequel or both) and you loved the game (and you probably did) do your best not to come to the movie with...too much expectations.

I myself have finished both games and loved them. I was pretty excited when news of the movie popped up on one of my RSS feeds. So I watched it the first opportunity I got. The movie didn't disappoint me but at the same time it left me wanting. By the end of it I was like "That's it?" Looking at the games you expect a lot of shooting. Not just "Once upon a time in Mexico" amount of shooting. I'm talking about "Rambo" x6 amount of shooting. And in this movie there was just not enough shooting. However I do think the filmmakers did a fine enough job in making the few shooting scenes in the movie pretty cool.

My biggest complain is with the main Character. Mark Wahlberg should've at least played the game to get a feel for Max but he didn't (according to the trivia section) and that's a big blunder in my book. If your playing an established character you need to study said character. If he did, maybe he would've done more shooting.

In the games Max is driven by revenge into a long and painful downward spiral into the depths of the underworld due to the murder of his wife and daughter. He is so consumed that he does not stop even in the face of death and dishonor and becomes a one man army. In the movie the motives are the same but Wahlberg's Max seemed...tamed compared to the game. in the movie Max seemed emulating some old 80's detective while ought to be more of a no-holds-barred, loose-cannon, cowboy. Maybe he just didn't do enough shooting.

Lastly, i just don't like how they added all these extra main characters to the story. Sure some of them were necessary but the Movie should've focused on the few main characters. That's one of the things that made the game great. You only follow the stories of the people who matter to the story. I don't like the new characters because they replace the roles of the game Characters. The major villain in the game was featured in the movie but the role of that character was severely underplayed and spread across several other characters. Not good. The filmmakers just ruined a character I loved to hate from the game.

All in all, a not so bad movie. It resembles the game in story and feel enough that it's still familiar to fans of the game. The action is pretty good, the cinematography is very good, and the direction is also good.

In the end of it all, the movie just needs more characterization a darker feel...and lots more shooting