I enjoy this movie. In 1971, director Michael Winner and writer Gerald Wilson combined for Lawman, in which Burt Lancaster's Marshal Maddox hunts down a group of men. In 1972, Winner and Wilson again paired for Chato's Land, in which Charles Bronson's Chato hunts down a group of men. Ralph Waite, Richard Jordan and William Watson were among the unfortunates in both films.

Both are good films. But what is unique about Chato's Land is that the movie is carried almost entirely by the supporting cast. Though billed as a Charles Bronson movie, Bronson's role is actually quite small. He has very few lines and is seldom even seen. We know the posse is being stalked by a generally unseen Apache. In the few scenes where that Apache is on camera, it is Bronson. But that role could even have been played by an unknown actor without affecting the quality of the movie.

In actuality, the movie is about the posse. The lead roles are Jack Palance and Simon Oakland. The principal supporting roles are played by Ralph Waite, James Whitmore, and Richard Jordan. The posse also includes familiar faces in Richard Basehart and Victor French. The personalities of the posse are well drawn out. The movie is essentially about what happens to them as they go from hunters to hunted. The actions of some of the posse members when they attack a woman are horrible. The others are at fault for not stopping it, even though it disgusted them. All paid a price.

Some are evil, some are noble, some are weak. Palance's character is interesting. He is a respected former confederate officer who assumes command of the posse but slowly comes to realize he has no control over these civilians and watches helplessly as things disintegrate around him. Oakland's character is the most vile, violent of the group. He seems to endorse Palance as the posse's leader only as long as things are done as he wants. And it is interesting when Palance quietly realizes that it is actually Oakland, and not himself, who is the real leader of the posse, at which time he avoids a confrontation and continues to act as the posse's leader by doing what he knows Oakland wants him to do. It is a well crafted script. 

Bronson is on screen only enough to remind us that he is in the film. Had the movie been accurately billed as a film starring Jack Palance and Simon Oakland, with Bronson in a small role, few would have paid to see it. Which would have been unfortunate because it's a good movie.