I would like to begin by saying that I started building my film library years ago and along with Citizen Kane, Casablanca, Gone With The Wind, Double Indemnity etc...Cape Fear was one of my first additions. This film, full of all the right ingredients(some are planned and some are not), stands out as one of the best thriller/dramas of the 60s. Now there were plenty in the 40s and 50s especially with the likes of Billy Wilder's Double Indemnity, Sunset Blvd. etc.. and Alfred Hitchcock's many unforgettable thrillers like Vertigo, Strangers on a Train, Shadow of a Doubt, Dial M for Murder, North by Northwest, Notorious, Rebecca, etc.. However once the 1960s came along there weren't quiet as many film noir type dramas as in the previous two decades. Now I'm not forgetting the film that started the 60's off with a bang: Psycho.. and I am very aware of all( and I do mean all) of the great dramas of the 60's but Cape Fear still stands out as one of the best of its time.

To begin Greg Peck who was producing at the time came up with a great title/name change and the novel The Executioners became the film Cape Fear. Peck while working on the Guns of Navarone took a liking to J. Lee Thompson's direction and asked him to direct Cape Fear. From that point on the team just got better and better. Here comes Team Hitchcock.... Bernard Herman who had scored more than a half dozen Hitchcock films was on board for the score. Next an art direction great and collaborator of Hitchcock Bob Boyle was hired. Then one of the best editors in film history, and once again a friend and collaborator of Hitchcock, George Tomasini was going to be the editor of Cape Fear. What a team! Now there are many other connections to Hitchcock through this film. For instance J. Lee Thompson had worked as an assistant on a film with Hitchcock many years ago(pre Rebecca). Also Thomas Tuttle who was the make-up artist on Cape Fear was the brother of one of Hitchcocks main make-up men William Tuttle. There were also actors like Martin Balsam that had worked for Hitchcock before(Psycho). So anyway all of these connections are probably part of the reason this film screams "This is an Alfred Hitchcock film".

I am not going to go very far into the plot other than to mention its a great story. Greg Peck plays a very believable lawyer in a small southern town who has testified 8 or so yrs earlier against Mitchum (Cady). This Max Cady (Mitchum) never forgot and is now out of prison and ready to exact all of the pain and years of suffering on Peck and his family. Let the thrills begin in this Hitchcockian style Drama. As Max Cady begins his evil game of cat and mouse we find out when he is picked up by the local police that he has been studying the very law that put him behind bars and is more than prepared for his frightening hunt. What will happen next? This film will definitely keep you on the edge of your seat and I regard it as one of my all-time favorite thrillers.