Twenty-five years after the film "Times Square" we get an updated version of that New Wave classic. And like its predecessor, "Uptown Girls" is destined to be more appreciated twenty-five years later than it was by contemporary critics and audiences. Both films include terrific music that had people stopping at a store on the way home from the film to pick up the soundtrack album/CD (with "soundtrack" defined as songs by a collection of artists as compared to a more traditional musical score), both feature two scared girls-polar opposites who bond and help each other, both have Altman's cool "Kansas City" twist where the seemingly weaker girl becomes protective of the tough girl, both have absolutely perfect endings, and both take place in NYC.

One major difference was that while "Times Square" had a clear target audience, "Uptown Girls" was never able to quite figure that out. While in almost every way superior to its sister film "Raising Helen", "Uptown Girls" lacks that films consistent family focus. Instead it is a fairy tale story marketed as a comedy, a generational bonding picture with just enough unnecessary adult material (a word here-an obscene gesture there) that it has a PG-13 rating; all of which means that adults think of it as a kid film and young viewers find only intermittent sequences to which they can relate.

At least the film is consistent in its inconsistency, as Boaz Yakin's inspired and imaginative direction and many incongruously subtle script elements are paired with a contrived and predictable basic story. There is originality packaged inside unoriginality-Ray is not mad at Molly because she was not there when Ray's father died or because Molly was wrong about him living longer if Ray talked to him, she is mad because Molly convinced her to lower her defenses so his death her hurts more. 

All this disparity should work in "Uptown Girls" favor in a few years when the dust clears and the film finds its proper audience, one that appreciates its complex dichotomy and subtle nuances. Until then it is worth noting that this will be an important film historically. Film historians will look back on "Uptown Girls" as the feature where Brittany Murphy (Molly Gunn) really began to define the perceptive airhead persona she first developed in "Drop Dead Gorgeous". Roger Ebert sees a lot of the divine ineptitude of Lucille Ball in Murphy with both being magnets for "Whoops! moments. I don't see her going quite that far, more like Zasu Pitts or Katherine Hepburn. Hollywood has gone two generations without an actress with this kind of natural comic talent. She and Dakota Fanning (Ray) play off each other very well.

Music is central to the story since Molly's father was a rock legend who died in a plane crash when she was a young girl and Ray's mom runs a record label. Little Molly inspired her father to write a song about her before he died called "Molly Smiles". She inspires her boyfriend to write the song "Sheets of Egyptian Cotton", but does not want to hear her father's song. This sets up a somewhat predictable but otherwise perfect ending as you finally get to get to hear "Molly Smiles" at Ray's dance recital; the film is worth watching just for this scene (as good an ending as "School of Rock's"). As someone commented earlier, the song works perfectly in the finale as all the plot threads are pulled together: " (1) we get to hear "Molly Smiles," (2) Neal makes up with Molly, (3) we find out what happened to Tommy Gunn's guitars, (4) Ray thanks Molly, (5) Ray finally dances free style, (6) Ray uses some moves she learned from Molly, and (7) Ray wears Molly's designer tutu. Appropriately, the soundtrack has a lot of the songs by female artists and makes for a pleasant enough album when you finally decide to play something else besides track 12. But you will probably pick this one up for the song about daddy's little girl because "Nothing's wrong when Molly smiles." 

Bottom line don't listen to the negative reviews-see this for yourself. If you can suspend belief and just accept the contrived basic story, then it won't be hard to really enjoy Brittany Murphy and Dakota Fanning as two broken kids who help each other learn how to live, 25 years after "Times Square".