Excellent films like this don't come around often. I have to say that i rank this as another "sleeper hit" movie, similar to Batman Begins. Let me say that the end results is equally satisfying as batman begins. I have never read the comics or known anything of this series until i watched this movie. I must say that this movie really keeps you on the edge of your seat, mixing a perfect amount of action, politics, story, background etc. 

I think one of the greatest assets of this movie is the after effect. You feel like becoming involved in your community, politics, or basically just making a change in our world. It gives you a special kind of satisfaction that one man or ideal can make a difference. Even if you don't feel these incentives, you definitely will learn something out of the experience. Specficially you probably want to investigate or search for more background information about the movie or comics, and this even leads to a little history lesson about who Guy Fawlkes was. There is a lot of underlying messages in this movie, which i will not get into because they are different for different people (deals wtih the past and present political issues). Anyways on to the cast. 

First off i have to give proper credit to the wachisoki brothers, i have to admit i didn't except them to do such a excellent job (come on, the last matrix's weren't exactly grade A material like the first one), so for them to do such a great accomplish deserves credit. 

Natalie Portman was stunning as ever, in both talent and looks (She can still shave her head and look good). Her acting was top notch, and really brought the character of Evey to light. This definitely was another one of her greater actress talent movies compared to her Queen amidala days. A lot may wonder why they didn't choose Kira knightly seeing shes already British. For me i believe Portman is a much more established and experienced actress than Kira, but who knows, Kira Knightly is definitely on the rise. Evey's character was refreshing and also was not so one dimensional like queen amidala. Evey had to deal with a lot of her own issues which i thought was very realistic. 

V was awesome in all respects. He was intelligent, smart, funny at times, and plain bad ass when i came to fighting. Evey moment he was on the screen he was intriguing and mysterious. You wanted to keep watching to find out any more information of V, he's ultimate purpose, his motives, intents etc. A lot of questions were definitely answered in the movie, which kept you satisfied. But, as stated before, after the movie you probably will try to get more information on the story itself as well as V. I think the greatest aspect of V is that he gave the audience both an ideal or represented a symbol but yet still gave the satisfaction of action. 

The detective (Finch) was excellent in this story, and also was not a one dimensional character. Evey person in the movie, whether good or bad had to make their own decisions and deal with their own issues before taking action. The dictator was very menacing, and the whole society felt very dark and real (like batman begins) which really gave it a realistic feel and something that all of us could relate to (due to our past convictions and fear of the future). 

As stated before, a lot of issues were in this movie that even deal with current issues of today that could lead to a part of tomorrow. Overall this is definitely one of the best movies of 2006 and is highly recommended to everyone.