Based upon the morbidly hilarious, staunchly anti-p.c. underground show that achieved minor cult status through comedy central, Strangers with Candy prologues how it's principle character Jerri Blank arrived at the ludicrous starting point that launched the debut many years ago on television. For anyone not familiar with the show and expecting a fairly straight forward comedy, good luck to you. The show and prequel film detail the escapades of this 40+, ex-con, ex-junkie's return to high school with such a unique "after school special on crack" approach that many viewers may not adjust well to the subtly absurd tone, heck they may not even be able to look at our prized lead for long either. No amount of praise for Amy Sedaris in a most unrelenting, unflattering caricature of the female form, should be withheld for her brave defiance, year after year, for completely representing the opposite of what most women strive to be- beautiful, pure, and classy. Not surprisingly however, is the strength of the supporting cast, especially the always engaging Colbert and the whimsically perverted Greg Hollimon (Principal Blackman), who would often carry the comedic weight of shows in the past. Unfortunately, it seems the translation to full length format has neither enhanced or detracted from the overall feel. With the exception of some much needed sexual language censors inactivated, the movie feels like a glorified episode, never really taking advantage of the new freedom and medium which were presented. The script is crackling with intelligence and bristling with social commentary, but it is nothing all too radical from the constant themes that eventually ran out of steam on the networks as well. As a fan of the show, I can say that people who haven't seen it, but are open minded and appreciate off kilter comedy will enjoy this experience the most, as it is a little too derivative and lazy to raise the bar for people already immersed in the Jerri Blank lore. Regardless of what the show leads one to expect in quality, this is still one of the more assured, defiant, dark comedies to hit our shelves in many months.