Korean movies have become so popular that they are high on the export list to the film industries abroad to be remade for local audiences. Leading the pack is Hollywood, and we've recently seen The Lake House. The Thai film industry too took a Korean movie - 1997's #1 Korean film, The Letter (Pyeon Ji), and gave it their own treatment in Jod Mai Rak.

I haven't watched the original, but looking at the result of this Thai effort, they aren't too far behind in the ability to make a melodramatic weepie too. Jod Mai Rak tells the story of two lonely people, a country boy called Ton (Attaporn Teemakorn), and a city girl Dew (Anne Thongprasom), who meet and found each other by chance at a Chiang Mai bus terminal, and as Fate would have it, they would come together after a semi-long distance courtship over the telephone.

There are plenty of sweet moments interjected throughout the narrative, like the lingering shots of a bald plum tree which belongs to Ton, and the tender moments during their stay together in Chiang Mai, after personal tragedy made Dew ditch her shared apartment in Bangkok, and opt for the more rustic lifestyle in the countryside. From here, country boy teaches city girl how to live it up with the basic necessities (well, she still brought over some city artifacts like the PC), and naturally lent itself to many moments that will melt your heart.

But watching a movie like that isn't interesting, and you always know that there's something extra just waiting to come. Melodramas always have you paint the perfect blissful picture, before coming down with the all too familiar terminal illness plot device. The two star crossed lovers aren't spared this either, and the latter half of the movie see them battle their fears of not having be with each other for long. 

It's a story of remembrance, and not forgetting the good things in life, of moving on and cherishing the good times. It's impossible for someone not to feel at least a tear in the eye as the dramatics take their full effect, especially towards the end, though there is some redeeming bittersweet feel at the end of the movie.

I found the use of the letters in the movie vaguely familiar, and possibly could have been used in other movies I've seen. It's nothing supernatural, and something which is simple, yet I know is highly effective in serving its purpose. Not that I think anyone would be crazy to do something like that in real life, probably will just either freak the other person out, or really prevent someone from truly moving on.

The leads Anne Thongprasorn and Attaporn Teermakorn are believable as the lovers. Girls will probably swoon at Attaporn's portrayal of Ton, the real sensitive new age dude who can cook, has green thumbs, and has so much heart and positivity in life. Anne's Dew initially started out quite unlikable, at least to me, with her tendency to be spoilt and taking things much for granted and in a minor way, mistreating Ton perhaps? But thankfully there is a character change as the movie progresses.

Directed by Pa-oon Chantornsiri, Jod Mai Rak is a perfect date movie which centers much on the lives of the two lovers, at the expense of having some throwaway supporting characters. Then again, two's a company, and anything more is always unwelcome. Chiang Mai also makes for an awesome romantic place.