First of all, allow me to start off by saying that your enjoyment of this movie would really depend on what you are expecting before entering the theater, as well as to some extent, your knowledge of Chinese legends such as the Monkey King (Sun Wukong) and (briefly) the Celestial Order (Jade Emperor, 8 immortals, etc.) If you are expecting something like Crouching Tiger Hidden Dragon or any of Zhang Yimou's epics such as Hero, Forbidden Kingdom will probably not quite as much appeal to you. By and large, the setting is Chinese Fantasy (and to a large extent, viewing the movie's official website and looking through each of the main character's bio serves in giving you an idea on what to expect) and many things in the movie, be it the music, the settings (such as tea houses, bamboo forests, and misty mountains) reflect this.

To some extent, the setting is similar to that presented in Bioware's Jade Empire, though unlike Jade Empire, there are no overt animal spirits and supernatural elements in Forbidden Kingdom (except the Monkey King that is). By and large, most of the action in the movie, especially between the monk character played by Jet Li and the travelling scholar by Jackie Chan, are grounded on real, believable martial arts (instead of things like Shadowless Kick, Buddha Palm (as seen in Stephan Chow's Kung Fu Hustle) or martial arts involving running across water and flying through the air) and fighting. It is only during scenes involving the Jade Warlord and the Monkey King that we see the use of "Chi" abilities and overt use of CGI, though even in these scenes, it isn't overused and done rather well.

Some may find the final fight scene scene somewhat disappointing (you don't really get to see as much much "real" fighting as you would hope - soldiers seem too willing to just fall over, etc.) but it's still exciting and earlier fight scenes such as in the teahouse and in the temple between Jackie Chan and Jet Li do not disappoint. There are several (deliberately) funny moments characteristic of Jackie Chan's movies (where the entire theater bursts out laughing) and the cinematography/sets are just amazing. Chan's drunken fist style looks particularly convincing and the costumes for all the other characters look really nice and yet believable. Despite a few storyline quirks and flaws (how and why the characters speak English is never explained, for example) but overall, this movie is a verrry enjoyable watch.

My rating: 9/10 and +1 to 10/10 just because of how much I loved the "Jade Army/Middle Kingdom" look/feel/music and setting in the movie.