I'm sorry to say that while this latest installment had its moments, it was disappointingly quite weak. Many ingredients from previous installments seemed to have been slapped together into this film, arising from nothing other than than the thought that, individually, each ingredient worked in the past, so let's put them all together now. It's like you were creating a dish from an amalgam of past experiences, so putting all of the ingredients that you loved so much in all your past meals into one dish will be even better! Let's hear it for that wonderful chocolate peanut butter dessert taste combined in one dish with the strawberry shortcake, creme brulee, blueberry-pineapple sorbet, grand marnier souflee, and cherries flambe. All of those desserts seemed so good individually, they should be wonderful all thrown together to make one dessert.

Harrison Ford seems a bit old and tired, not quite up for the adventure. Karen Allen seems a bit lost as if the filmmaker and writer(s) didn't quite know what to do with her. The character's appearance is useless and seems contrived, compared to the feisty character in the first film who was an equal to Indiana Jones and could easily survive on her own.

There are too many elements in this film, very few arise organically. Again, they seem to be thrown together because the elements somehow worked in the past, but the filmmaker ignored how to create a strong narrative drive and have the elements arise out of the need to tell the story.

Too much of the film has Ford explaining why we should care about various clues he finds. All that talking is going to make it go above the head of young Indiana Jones fans, while make us not care because, again, the plot is too contrived.

Yes, the first film came out of left field and the story and elements were perfectly created. At this point, however, I think they should put this series to bed. And if the reason that this film was created was to continue the franchise with Shia LaBeouf, there's not going to be much of a following as he seems as lost in this as the rest of the cast.

There were a few exciting sequences and Indiana's toughness and wit shone most successfully in the opening sequence, but the film just could not really keep up. There were several self-spoofing references, but on top of the relative tiredness of the film, it made me think that the filmmaker was less than inspired.