"The Interpreter" is a very skillful blend of genres: intrigue, thriller, romance, drama, redemption. And that was a surprise to me. The ads for the movie, frankly, did not entice me to see it. I have not been a great fan of Nicole Kidman, nor Sean Penn, in the past. I was pleasantly shocked to find them extremely likable actors who delivered amazing performances in this movie. Each of them displayed a very touching degree of vulnerability, one can't help but feel moved by them. For the first time, in my opinion, anyway, both of them showed their hearts to us, making them immensely attractive and appealing. 

In light of this, and other, evidence which contradicts my negative prejudices against certain folks, it appears that I should really lighten up!

The plot of the movie is probably known to you by now--- the trailers reveal most of it. But the plot is not the important point. Sure, there are many components of the political thriller genre, and the international, third-world intrigue thing as well. But these are so masterfully woven into the film as mere backdrop to the real story here: the humanity and interaction, and just maybe the eventual redemption, of the two lead characters, played by Penn and Kidman.

Much has been made of the use of the actual UN for the UN scenes. That was interesting. It was a level of verisimilitude that echoed the same veracity shown in the human dynamics as well. That is, the uniqueness and depth offered by the 'real' locations was only natural, given the same reality and depth of the humans portrayed.

To get a sense of this movie, maybe it is accurate to say it has a similar vibe to "The Bourne Identity"? Sort of. "Bourne" was more violent, and had sexual components which "The Interperter" does not. But in the sense that "Bourne" was an intelligent version of its genre, it is similar to this movie. "The Interperter" is also extremely intelligent. And entertaining. And engrossing, and deep, and moving, and thoroughly and totally wonderful! So, hooray for this. I now have two 'new' actors to admire. I am a Penn and Kidman fan. And a rekindled Sydney Pollack fan (he was the director) as well. This is Oscar-worthy to be sure. I gave this a well deserved 10 out of 10.