Hollywood is starting to seem pretty damn desperate with its horror movies, it seems to do one of two things, make an extremely nasty torture movie designed to sicken, but not scare, or to re-make a classic horror movie and add lots more gore, more skimpy clothing, and just wreck the entire memory of that classic movie. While the gorier option of torture movies might not be the best movies ever at least they are original stories that are entertaining. The Saw series and Hostel are good movies, flawed, and certainly not scary, but pretty good movies. However re-makes of horror movies are generally shoddy in comparison. This has been proved with the likes of The Amtylville Horror, The Texas Chainsaw Massacre, and last years pitiful attempt at remaking The Wicker Man. The Hitcher is another movie that can be safely added to that list. While The Hitcher has its brief moments, and a great lead in the driving seat, the movie itself is just too full of un-scary clichés and a certain lack of anything memorable. I have never seen the original Hitcher, I understand its a movie some people adore, and others can't see the huge fuss over. However, I'm pretty sure the movie cannot be as bad as this movie. The movie just isn't scary, it has its share of jump sequences, but a jump sequence without anything to fall back on is a scene designed to give a brief jolt, not to truly unsettle them. The story itself is predictable, the lead characters (with the exception of the protagonist) lame and annoying, and the whole scenario so ludicrous by the end that you no longer care. It also has an amazing feat of still feeling oddly long and tiresome at a brief length of 80 minutes! So let me first go on about the cast. 

Firstly I'll talk about the one good cast member of this movie, Sean Bean. Quite why Bean read the script and accepted it is beyond me, he's clearly the most talented actor in the movie, and he's clearly out of place. He's simply too good for this movie. Thankfully though he does make the character interesting, he doesn't have a lot of screen time really, yet in his brief screen time he makes an effective bad guy. Later scenes, where we see the layers of his insanity begin to peel makes you honestly think about the character. Bean does a good job here, he shouldn't be in this movie, he should be in the better written Hitcher remake with a cast that comes off as passable, unfortunately he appears to have walked onto the wrong set. And so it leads me to the other cast members, well he lead cast members. Sophia Bush and Zachary Knighton. So were they any good? No, not even remotely. Knighton appears to be making an effort, despite the fact he's not talented in the least bit. But he seems to try and make some scenes tolerable when the pair are alone, he also gets to be in the movies one memorable scene towards the end of the film. But Sophia Bush is just horrible, her character development is unbelievably cheesy and poorly done, her dialogue is even worse, and her delivery is just abysmal. She clearly isn't making an effort and the writers obviously didn't with her either. She's essentially eye candy, and my thoughts were proved correct by the time she got to have a brief scene in skimpy underwear only to pull on a ridiculously small mini-skirt. No other cast members are even worth considering, the rest might as well have all been extras, their performances aren't even remotely memorable.

So what of the actual scares of the movie? As I mentioned there isn't any really, its a horror movie without any real horror. It seems to think its gory yet it really isn't, not one scene really makes you wince at all, and quite why it got the 18 rating originally amazes me, either the scenes they cut were really horrible, or the people who rated it were drunk. The movie does have a fair share of jump scares, yet most occur only through raised music or someone randomly grabbing another persons in some place. The most pitiful involves a car and a cliff, its so random and so ludicrous its unreal. Matters aren't helped by the fact its never explained and the film simply forgets about it, leaving me to believe it was a jump scene for the sake of a jump scene. The movie just isn't a horror movie, its basically an action movie devoid of exciting action for the majority of the movie. Only one sequence in the final third of the movie gets the pulse rating, the rest is just a poor mans attempt at making a horror/action.

Overall The Hitcher is a movie with a good idea at the centre of it all, and a good chief villain. But no one else seemed to bother with the movie and its clearly been made just to make as much money as possible. Cheap shocks aplenty for those who want them, but for people who have seen better horror movies this will seem an insult. Its not the worst movie ever made, its just a pretty poor one.