I saw this one when it was first released in 1972. It did three things for me, initially: it began my lifelong admiration for Werner Herzog; it also began my fascination with the music of Popul Vuh, the small German orchestral group; and, with consummate visual detail, it rekindled my recollections of a similar large rain forest - the jungles of New Guinea, in which I'd live for six years in the 1960s.

So, in 1972, it left me stunned by the time I'd reach the last frame.

I've seen the film four times now, most recently this year, 2007. Time has not changed my opinion about Herzog's skill, determination and sheer madness in making this movie, surpassed only by his next great epic, Fitzcarraldo (1982), perhaps even more impressive than Aquirre. I'll not debate that, because both films are film art in the finest sense.

And, what can you say about Klaus Kinski that's not already been said? Not everybody's cup of tea, for sure; and the title role he plays is Shakespearian in its grand madness, a madness that afflicts only those with great vision, good and bad. Arguably, however, Herzog and Kinski shared that kind of madness that is, for most people, totally beyond our reach, mentally and physically.

From the documentary, Mein Liebster Feind (1999), I found out that the opening sequence – one of the most visually and orally stunning vistas ever put to film – came about through sheer coincidence: Herzog revealed that, just prior to starting the shoot, the clouds rolled in – but he carried on anyway, thus using the work of God (if I may) to make a good opener just perfect. A lesser man than Herzog, I think, would have kept that nugget under wraps.

Was the story based on fact? There are various opinions, but I think Herzog said he concocted the whole thing. What does it matter? The story is timeless, that's Herzog's point: the human condition is forever driven to and repelled by the need to achieve – for want of a better word – glory, whether for good or for evil. In Aquirre's case, it's a journey into madness as he tries to achieve his dreams for El Dorado on earth.

Although Kinski, sadly, is no longer with us, I think we can rely on Herzog to continue producing and directing major works of film art. Let's hope so.

Highly recommended for all lovers of fine film making.