Had 2 children not relied on me for transportation home from the movie I would have walked out after the first 10 minutes. Strangely enough they hated it. What's more surprising is that I shared the opinions of two teen boys who are engrossed in Rap Music, Pro (sic) Wrestling, MTV, and movies featuring breasts, blood, and explosions. This movie should have been right up their alley.

Scary movie 4 recycles the same jokes from the first 3 "Scary" movies, but disguises it in a shiny new wrapper by using a new set of overrated pop-culture references. Instead of poking fun at the aspects of pop-culture that truly deserve it (ie: tabloid magazines, irresponsible pregnant pop-divas, ridiculous celebrity monikers like 'P-Diddy,' contracting the names of Hollywood couples like 'Brangelina and Tomkat,' predictable bad-movie plots, brainless celebrity sluts, and drugged-up sports stars) they simply took anything that was popular and tried to make fun of it. In fact their desperation to latch onto anything that COULD be made fun of, no matter how much the humor failed, was so strong that it left the writers looking ignorant and out of touch with what satire truly is. The movie's plot is thin, accidental, and written as nothing more than an excuse to tie War of the Worlds, Saw (I & II), The Village, and The Grudge together in such a loose fashion, that one would have gotten more from it had they watched it backwards. In trying so hard, it generates a largely predictable and detestable plot that is little more than re-enacted footage from movies that you're probably already too familiar with, using sub-par actors, generic FX, cheap visual gags, and bad puns. However, I will give the studio kudos for recreating those scenes with splendid accuracy.

If you enjoy watching movies you have already seen, except poorly modified in completely low-brow attempts to make you laugh, then run out right now and see this. 

Otherwise, if you have a brain, you'd find more entertainment value from having a bus run over your head. I may have never laughed during this movie, but I did halfway smile, TWICE! I think that's the highest compliment that this movie can get.

I expected more from the man who brought us such comic classics as Kentucky Fried Movie and Police Squad.

For shame, Mr. Zucker. Running low on cash, are we?