"Nosferatu the Vampyre" is an incredibly fun and enjoyable Gothic vampire effort.

**SPOILERS**

Arriving for work, Jonathan Harker, (Bruno Ganz) learns that he is to go to Transylvania for an important assignment, which upsets Lucy Harker, (Isabelle Adjani) his wife. Finally arriving in the countryside, he learns the locals fear the place as legends state a deadly creature, which they've named Nosferatu, haunts the area, which he writes off as mere superstition but makes it to Castle Dracula anyway. When Count Dracula, (Klaus Kinski) appears to sign his deeds that were being delivered, he takes him prisoner in his castle and goes to England, starting up a relationship with her during the night against her knowledge. When it's apparent that a vampire is the cause of the plague, vampire hunter Dr. Van Helsing, (Walter Ladengast) is called in, who confirms the news and sets out to hunt down the vampire and kill all those who have become like it.

The Good News: When this one tries, it does have some good parts. The cinematography here is also rather nice, getting some nice shots as the slow-motion bat used in the nightmare scenes, the lush hillsides of the peasant villagers and the countryside journey as a whole is really great. Even the opening shots of the mummified corpses in various states of rot-and-decay look really great, setting an eerie mood that the film really captures well. There's also the film's rather fun and enjoyable Gothic atmosphere that creeps in, from the rocky passageway to Dracula's castle that runs alongside a bubbling river, the nighttime attack on the ship through the slow-motion photography and the unbelievable sequence where the vampire pulls his coffin out of the ship and takes it into a foggy cemetery during the dead of night manages to be one of the film's best scenes overall. It manages to get better, as the scenes in the decaying castle at the beginning, the nighttime scenes in the bedroom and the fight with Van Helsing at the end are also really great and get a lot of good about them. Even a minor throwaway scene as the funeral scene looks rather great with the coffins emerging from the church in four different pathways, all done at a huge angle to see just outlines of the coffins moving in the line, which is a great look and is done with a great feel to it. The look of the vampire in here is really great, with the balding head, dead eyes, pale skin and huge fangs perfectly suited to open up large wounds on the body, which make for an imposing monster to face, yet when there's also the rather large clawed hands and huge black cape, it becomes even better and scarier. The scenes of it running loose around the town, with the oddly shaped and quite menacing silhouette plastered across the building-face, leaves a great impression and make the film that much more fun. The last good part here is the film's rather fun and frenetic last half, which is the search around London for the vampire, the last great confrontation in the bedroom and it's all-encompassing wrap-around, which includes the only gore in the film, a really great entry and it's all a great way to end the film. These here are all that work for the film.

The Bad News: This one didn't have many flaws but there was a couple. Frankly, one of the biggest problems here is the film's pacing. This takes forever to get going, mainly due to several scenes either not being necessary or just going on too long. The meeting on the beach goes too long to get it's important point across, the hilarity between the crew in the library manages to make a one-note joke last a lot longer than it should, and the entire sequence with the villagers in the mountains was completely unneeded. Though it spills the legend of the titular creature and their understandable fear of him, there's little reason for it to be here since it really could've come from another scene, maybe replacing the joking in the library. What these mainly do is simply just extend the film out, making it much longer than it should be. It has no need to be nearly two hours long, and the trimming of these would've helped that along. There's also a feeling, with all the fancy camera-tricks and photography that this one plays more as a technical display rather than an all-out horror film, and that's something to get over. The last flaw is that there's very little vampire action, relegating mostly to the end it cuts down on the attempted blood and gore. This one should've had a little more involved in that area, but what's here isn't all that terrible, it just needed a little more. All-told, these aren't enough to really knock it down from what good it features.

The Final Verdict: A great Gothic exercise in an era when they don't do it any more, which has some minor flaws going for it to lower it slightly. This one's a big plus for fans of the slow-burning Gothic tales of the 60s or those into the creative side of things, otherwise seek caution with it.

Rated R: Graphic Violence and Language