Westerns might be making a comeback. With Americans' newfound appreciation of independent and more artistic film, such a statement isn't too off-base. "3:10 to Yuma" is a hell of a start, showing that great acting is more important than action in making a Western. There's nothing in the action that you can complain about, in fact there's nothing in the whole film that can be complained about, but the acting takes precedence and that's what sets this film apart.

"Yuma" is a remake that centers around a rancher named Dan Evans (Christian Bale) who is struggling to feed his family and beginning to doubt his image as a father and husband. He gets mixed up in the thievery of Ben Wade (Russell Crowe) and his band of outlaws and after Wade is caught, agrees (for the money) to be a part of a crew that is to escort Wade to a station where he is to take the 3:10 train to Yuma, or ultimately, his death. Of course the rest of Wade's bandits, led by Charles (Ben Foster) want him back and Wade will surely not be very compliant.

The premise is simple, but every moment of the film is exciting. If there isn't action carrying the scene, then there are the great talents of this cast that make it interesting. Crowe is very strong in the antagonist role and Bale is great as always. It is amusing how a Welsh and an Australian actor give such believable portrayals of Americans. Ben Foster is also very easy to despise and moviegoers will be sure to see him more in the future.

There might not be anything amazing about "Yuma" but I challenge anyone to find something bad or off about it. Director James Mangold is certainly credible enough to have all his bases covered. It's simply a clean cut Western with a modern mindset that makes itself clear in the characterization which is more about being real and cool than just being a cool and stereotypical cowboy. The acting gives the characters heart and really brings out the themes and morals of a film thats main intention is the action and excitement.

"Yuma" is the perfect merger of a glitzy Hollywood Western action film with great drama led by great acting: the ideal film in from a money standpoint and from a quality standpoint and arguably those films deserve the most praise.