I just finished seeing USED CARS for maybe the sixth or seventh time, and the first time on DVD. This outrageous and diabolically funny movie from the two Bobs, Zemeckis and Gale, died at the box office in 1980, steamrollered by AIRPLANE, but thanks to cable, VHS, and now DVD, it's alive. . .IT'S ALIVE!!! USED CARS is a movie for everyone who has ever felt they just got suckered by an auto dealer (which probably means 99.9 percent of the United States). Kurt Russell, cast against type, plays a sleazy used car salesman with an eye on the Mayor's office and, as the film progresses, an unfortunate streak of genuine goodness. As mentioned in the wonderful, hilarious commentary on the DVD, the two Bobs were thinking Bill Murray, but Russell does them proud. Gerrit Graham (of PHANTOM OF THE PARADISE) is Russell's salesman sidekick, and gets one of the movie's best gags (which I won't spoil for you, but it involves a very smart dog, a rock, and a station wagon full of kids). The always welcome Jack Warden gets to play not only the owner of Kurt Russell's car lot, but the owner's realllly oily brother, who owns the lot across the street and can't wait for his sibling to kick the bucket. Warden has a field day (and, as stated in the commentary, this was Warden's first R-rated movie, so he takes advantage of it and cusses up a hilarious storm). Everone else in the cast is just great, from Frank McRae's manic mechanic to Deborah Harmon (from Second City) as Jack Warden's daughter to Al Lewis (yep, Al Lewis!) as a peripatetic Judge to David L. Lander and Michael McKean as technical masterminds who patch in to a Presidential Broadcast. Familiar faces are everywhere in USED CARS; you will see future Director Alfonso Arau, Woodrow Parfey, Joe Flaherty, Dub Taylor, Wendie Jo Sperber, Marc McClure and even Dick Miller in the cast. Everyone gets to have lots and lots of fun.

And. . .acres and acres of Bad Leisure Suits! The two Bobs did a lot of research for USED CARS, soliciting stories from many actual car salespeople, so when you watch the film bear in mind that these are the stories they could get away with showing--imagine what they COULDN'T use! This is a laugh riot, the kind of comedy that will have you roaring. Now, it's not for everyone--the humor gets pretty raunchy. Definitely not for kids.

And there is a boatload of special features on the DVD release: hilarious commentary by the two Bobs and Kurt Russell (I wish more DVDs had commentary in which the principals enjoy what they are doing so much!), deleted footage (some of which is infamous), original advertising for USED CARS, radio spots, a TV spot for the actual car dealer who let them use his lot to film, and much more.

This one's a keeper. USED CARS is a funny, funny film. Not Disney funny, but STRIPES, WHERE'S POPPA and BLAZING SADDLES funny. Be careful when you drink your soda during USED CARS: you'll find yourself doing a classic "spit-take"!