THE NAME OF THE ROSE (DER NAME DER ROSE) (1986) Summary: The Threat of Laughter to Oppressive Powers

Seeing this fascinating film again, I was more struck this time with the bleakness of its grim vision of people and life. The only sights to relieve the eye in the entire film are some exquisitely carved stone doorways and lots of old bound folio leather tomes, like many which I have myself. (Note: in 1327 these did not exist, but never mind. Maybe the budget could not stretch to vellum.) Everything else is like a vision of hell, and presumably that's what everyone thinks of the Middle Ages. There are some perfect performances in this film, such as F. Murray Abraham as Bernardo Gui the Inquisitor, and Michael Lonsdale as the Abbot (what's he doing speaking English? back in your French box, Lonsdale!). But the most spectacular performance, and the one which steals the film to my mind is that by Ron Perlman as Salvatore, a hunchback who is more interesting than all the other monks put together, and who speaks the most astonishing multi-lingual gibberish I have ever heard come out of a human mouth. I wonder if he were dubbed! Sean Connery is smooth and convincing as William of Baskerville, but better still would have been someone a bit more cerebral. (I kept expecting him to pull a gun from under his cassock and start blasting away.) Christian Slater is charmingly naive as William's young protégé, and probably just right for the part, though rather a tepid presence on screen. The chief importance of this film, though few viewers may have realized it, is that the main theme is based upon scholarly fact. There really was a Book Two of Aristotle's 'Poetics' dealing with the nature and philosophy of comedy and laughter, and it is lost, and probably for the very reasons which the author Umberto Eco suggests. There are some publications on this subject, such as Richard Janko's book 'Aristotle on Comedy: Towards a Reconstruction of Poetics II' (Duckworth, London, 1984), based on a precis of part of the work which apparently survived in a treatise called 'Tractatus Cosilinianus', made in the tenth century. Certainly, Aristotle's comments on parody, ridicule, and mockery would have made members of the Inquisition nervous. Part of the surviving precis says: '... there is a place for some mockery in comedy, since a reproach becomes acceptable if it is sweetened with wit. The joker aims to expose the faults of mind and body in his victims ...' Not what cardinals are fond of! After all, during the decades of Soviet oppression, the Eastern Europeans took refuge in subtle satire as a way of attacking the tyranny, and in the Middle Ages, it was the only way to deal with the Catholic oppression. So the Inquisition was not anxious for a manual on satire to be handed round as a guide for attacks on their sanctimonious prating and their vicious persecutions. Laughter really is a threat to the oppressive, since if there is one thing a sadist cannot tolerate, it is being thought to be laughable. Sadism comes from vanity, and vanity is too readily punctured by humour for humour to be encouraged or allowed. That is why stand-up comics are now being reined in and told they cannot make fun of this or that group, on the pretext of 'political correctness', but really to force them to submit to censorship by the humourless mediocrities who preside over every oppressive bureaucracy which has ever existed. After all, there is nothing funny about being mediocre, it is deadly serious, and so are the efforts of the mediocre to silence those of us who might laugh at their pretences and ridicule their power. It is rare for a major film to be made from an intellectual book, especially one dealing with fundamental issues of society. Will we see another anytime soon? Or will pigs fly first?