When I see the dismaying comments about this movie, I really feel sorry for Alexander Payne. You may not like his movie but you cannot say it is badly made or it's crap... But again, some people do not like some masterpieces (it's also a matter of taste). Objectively speaking, Payne did a terrific camera and directing work, the acting of Nicholson is obviously OUTSTANDING as usual. The soundtrack is tastefully chosen (Erik Satie's gnossiennes are altogether mysterious, meditative and sad). The whole thing is extremely refined and makes me think that part of American audience really missed the point...I had a better opinion of American people, please guys, do not disappoint me! Try to appreciate something else than stupid blockbusters brimming with violence or shallow and cheesy love stories with the expandable and lame "actors" of the day... So, the argument could only be done about the screenplay which some (too many) did not like or thought it was boring. To me, it was very profound and realistic. Spend your entire life behind a desk in a gloomy office, trapped between four walls, doing something pointless: your life goes by, you worked like a dog and finally when retirement comes you discover altogether: -that you do not know any longer how to occupy yourself and you know only one thing: doing your stupid job, -that the passion you had once for your wife has vanished and she seems quite a stranger to you in many ways, -that you completely failed being close to your only child and there's a complete misunderstanding between you, -and finally, when your wife dies, that you're extremely lonely and that life may be vain...unless you find a little orphan on the other side of the world with whom you'll share a little bit of friendship. I think this represents a lot of common fears from all of us and it is particularly well exploited in this movie. Not everybody has got the chance of doing the job of his/her dreams, not everybody succeeds in his/her family life...so quit movies with the brainless bimbos (male and female)of the month, stop listening to Britney Spears, and have a look at Payne, Angelopoulos, Schlondorff, Bergman, Wenders, Truffaud, and listen to Brahms or anything with substance.