Transformers gets my vote for best movie for the summer of 07. Now, I was skeptical when I first heard of this movie. I was holding on to the memories of childhood; playing with the toys (we totally had Optimus Prime!), loving the cartoon, crying at the animated movie (Autobots died?! What?!) I planned to boycott, to moan about Hollywood snagging and ruining my childhood. Then I saw the preview and heard the sound. If you ever watched Transformers, you know what I mean. The awesome 'transforming' sound. And it's there. In the movie. And so is Peter Cullen, the original voice for Optimus Prime. So I went and I watched and I fell for the Transformers all over again. Optimus Prime was calm, and yet bad ass. Like a Kurosawa samurai. The Decepticons were mean and...deceptive. And yes, I got a little blurry eyed when the Autobots gathered. Shut up. This movie is great because it really is a story with good guys and bad guys. And the writers stayed away from "stupid US government gangs up on all Transformers, good or bad." Which was good, because I hate when alien movies go all "Mac and Me". I thought the effects were great, and didn't do too much of the quick jump edits that action movies insist on using today, and that give me such a headache. They even do some stuff in slow-mo, which is effective. Of course, some people are mad because Bumblebee was a Camaro and not a VW Bug. Well, talk to VW, people, because they had their chance and they said no. And sorry, the Camaro is SWEET!! Deal. Without GM,you wouldn't have movie at all to complain about on IMDb, then you'd have to live productive lives, and no on wants that. Some people are also 'upset' that the robots don't look exactly as they did in the cartoons. These are the same people that wanted the X-Men running around in brightly colored Lycra, so I'm ignoring them. All in all, I'd go see it again, and at $6.50 a pop for a matinée, that's saying something. Sure, it's not going to change the world, but it sure is fun to watch.