Having only discovered Russ Meyer relatively recently, I cant say I'm a lifelong fan of his work; but every time I see another of his movies, my respect and admiration for the man increases, and Vixen is no exception to that rule; as while it may not be the man's best work; it's certainly right up there with the likes of Supervixens and Faster Pussycat! Kill! Kill! and Vixen is also the film that put the great director on the map. As anyone who knows Meyer's movies will probably already know, Vixen stars a buxom lady in the lead role and puts most of its focus on sex. Unlike Meyer's later work, however, Vixen actually seems to want to make some sort of political point; which while absurd and completely redundant, gives the film an extra layer. The plot is simple, as is often the case with Meyer's movies, and focuses on a young woman in British Canada named Vixen. As her name suggests, Vixen enjoys seducing people; both men and woman, with no prejudice...except for the fact that she's openly racist, which causes arguments with her brother's black friend...

It's the buxom females that make Russ Meyer's films what they are, and this one is no exception. Erica Gavin takes the lead role and fits it like a glove. It's true that her ample chest does her a few favours, but she's also a decent actress and always entirely believable in her role. Russ Meyer's later films feature plenty of full frontal nudity and can be considered 'hardcore' - but that isn't the case here. The film is only soft - the sex scenes aren't explicit and while the women are happy to take their tops off, nothing else is shown. This may be a disappointment to anyone going into this film and expecting something more like Meyer's later stuff, but it didn't bother me much as the film has more than enough else about it to ensure that it's entertaining. The one lesbian scene is excellently done and erotic in spite of the fact that it's not explicit; while a strange sequence involving fish and the incest scene between Vixen and her brother is sure to shock some viewers even now, so I'm sure that was the case in the sixties too. Meyer also sees fit to include political themes and racial issues in the film, which make it all the more bizarre considering how out of place it feels! Vixen is a highly enjoyable piece of film-making and I'm confident that it will hit all the right notes for my fellow Meyer fans!