Helen of Troy, just one of the many tireless adaptations of the Iliad. Unfortunately, movie writers decided to put a fancy Hollywood twist and Dadathis is the result. Having read the Iliad, you will be very disappointed by the fact that the producers seem to keep only the names of the characters from the original story. I never wanted to be cynical about the movie but as a lover of Greek Literature since Elementary the movie left a bad taste in the mouth. It was a good Hollywood movie, yes but as an adaptation to the Iliad? It's way below the scales. Another bad point is that the movie, exactly 175 minute long is cut. Yes, cut and horrifyingly done at the most important events. Students who have to do the review have to surf the net or else dig out the pirated DVD movies available in Mangagoy.

Let me describe it as cheerfully as I can. Have you ever tried watching those after-news soap opera's? Well, that's exactly how the story was told. Like a soap opera. Most of the important characters in the story were turned to extras and the unimportant ones took on major roles. What happened to the two heroes of mythical proportions, Hector and Achilles? One is an arrogant teenager (in mentality) who couldn't hurt even a fly and the other one seems Vin Diesel or Kurt Angle the wrestler. What happened to the fact that Paris was only good as an archer? What happened to the honor, the heroism? Where is Pollux' twin Castor? Both saved Helen when she was kidnapped. I didn't know that Agamemnon took a liking to Helen, and that rape scene. How disgusting, immature and perverted can they be? The worst and most obvious was the ransom of Hector's body. Originally it was between Priam and Achilles but since the movie was Helen of Troy, who else would be the star and be on the spotlight but Helen herself and her rapist Agamemnon? It was supposed to be an outstanding scene; they turned it into a failure. Let's not get started about the war scenesthey used barbed wires in the background (They existed in the past???) 

On the bright side, students liked the movie. They cherished Cassandra's line; "Kill him! Kill him!" It stood the test of time and lasted up to the socialization. Oh, and they thought Helen was a flirt and her face could only launch a 100 ships, if people would bother! Paris, the ever handsome Paris. One flaw, though, he's got scoliosis. People have to love Agamemnon's eyes, cold and wicked, a sex maniac as students opt to say. The musical scoring was good; a woman singing in the background was quite eerie. Overall, the movie was good enough. Be warned though, don't read the Iliad or anything relating to it before and after watching the movie. You'll be thoroughly disappointed.