Survival horror manages to entertain on just about every level, while also succeeding in creating genuine tension.

Having seen the trailer for Wrong Turn some time ago, I was grossly put off the film. The trailer portrayed a dull teen slasher with little imagination, and derivative of just about everything else out there. Safe to say I wasn't inspired to view it. However, after a friend advised that the trailer nowhere near does the full film justice, I thought I'd give it a whirl.

The story here is that after generations of inbreeding (Quite why, no one knows), 3 deformed forestfolk have essentially become cannibals and feed by stopping passing cars via planting barbed wire on the road.

Much like The Texas Chainsaw Massacre they kill not for killing's sake, but to feed - it's how they survive.

However, Wrong Turn takes echoes from Deliverance when a group of teens get stranded via afforementioned method, and find themselves struggling to stay alive after stumbling on the cannibals' den and mistakenly alerting them to their presence.

Eliza Dushku and Desmond Harrington star as Jessie and Chris, initial strangers brought together by the nightmare they end up in. Jessie's in a party of 5 including herself, and Chris was on his way to a job interview. After smashing into their stranded car, Chris joins the group searching for a working phone.

Needless to say, much slicing and dicing occurs before this one is over.

A surprisingly decent job was done with this movie. Sure, it's not going to win any awards for originality, the script's hardly inspired, and the acting is hardly Oscar level, but what it does it does fairly well.

The direction in particular is quite excellent. It's fast paced, it's thrilling, and it's extremely smooth. Arguably there's a bit of a missed opportunity with the cinematography as there are chances for epic panoramas which are never taken properly, but aside from this the movie's technically sound.

Another major bonus is the surprisingly effective tension created, particularly in the killers' den. Without spoiling anything, they make good villains, and their pursuit of the group works pretty well.

Certainly it requires a major suspension of disbelief at many moments, and in fact comes across as downright silly at others, but nevertheless it still entertains, which is what it's supposed to do.

The plot's not exactly got a lot going for it, but it doesn't really need to. It's a simple survival horror story which relies on style over substance but succeeds in this not being to its detriment.

Decent.