This movie is a brilliant piece of filmography and I might even stretch to say its one of the greatest ever made. This movie has it all. It has this amazing story which depicts the lives and hardships the African American Soilders go through in the War of the states, or more commonly known as the Civil War. The story goes even further though, and breaks down the racial and class structures of that time and how each of every color and stature co-exist together within the same regiment.

The acting i superb. Mathew Brodrick does a great job at this role as Col. Robert Gould Shaw, considering the fact that he is still pretty young at this stage of his career and hasn't had the experience like other actors that could of had that role. Denzel Wahington's performance was great as well...and IO believe he even won an academy award for his role as Pvt.Trip in Glory. He always does a wonderful job and I wouldn't of picked another actor to do it. My favorite acting in that movie was Matthew Brodrick, but I think Morgan Freeman did an incredible job as well. As Morgan Freeman as my favorite actor, I might be going over my head and crediting him to much in this role, but I just think he was great. Although his lines in the movie are short of length compared to the other roles, he does a great job at what he was given to do. His presence and feelings you get when you watch him speak really makes you think he is part of that time period and he isn't Morgan Freeman the actor, but rather Sgt. Maj. John Rawlins. Cary Ewles (also in Robinhood and men and tights and The Princess Bride) also was not disappointing. His loyal feelings towards the Union and to Col. Robert Shaw are really brought to life with his acting. He is a very solid actor in my opinion.

The Directing of Edward Zwick is genius. Every time I watch this movie I always get the feeling like I'm actually watching a live recording of the Civil War. His angles, sets, and location decisions were outstanding I must say. The way he portrayed the life of African Americans and their struggle for freedom and equality is life like and thought provoking to the last. The fact that this movie is based on a true story makes me appreciate this movie even more and I never get tired of watching it.

the writing and screen play was wonderful as well. The main story, the true historical background, and the addition of some individual outside problems are what makes this story connect and make it a solid story. The screenplay and dialogue are both well put together. The slang, dialogue, and presence people used back then are used affective and used to a great advantage to help this movie become a classic. There seems to be not one cheesy or unnecessary piece of dialogue through out the whole movie and that said the dialogue is smooth throughout the entire film. The characters emotions, and actions are predictable enough to say that they are life like, but unpredictable the same, which helps the film not become too dull or too predicable.

James Horner's Original score for the movie was wonderful. The choice to have a classical score for this movie was the right way to go. It brought the mood and tone together in this movie and it also helped us, well me at least, appreciate war a little more with its sad tone and gave the movie a more of a professionally made edge to it as well. I think without that element in the mix, the movie wouldn't be what it is today. The music is key to a lot of movies and this movie is one that would benefit from its own music.

...and last, but not least I just would like to close by saying this movie's elements and messages of horror of war, connecting with the ones you have around you, diversity acceptance, freedom for all, and compassion and care for all people no matter what color you are, are the things that make this movie to be set aside from other war films. Its pure brilliance is showed all throughout the movie and never wavers from being interesting. If you haven't seen this movie, Every inch of my recommends it. This movie deserves the recognition equal to its greatness it is. You you like war movies, but also like a quality story within it, it will not let you down.