I don't know what my esteemed colleague is talking about in claiming that Silent Running espouses a Hippie message. _Why_, pray tell, was Freeman Lowell a Hippie: because he liked trees? For heaven's sake, he was a _botanist_, remember? That was the _reason_ he was on the mission (and had been for eight years): he was curator of the greenhouses on the American Airlines cargo vessel "Valley Forge." Duh. Now, I don't presume to apologize for Lowell's actions: after he kills the first fellow crewman in a fight--accidentally beaning him with a spade in a minor squabble over the jettison-and-detonate orders--there was absolutely no reason to follow through on the particular greenhouse that he knew to contain the last two crewmen. But, Lowell indeed has a conscience: that's why we see him degenerate into insanity, talking to the drones as if they were people ("The man had a full house and he knew it! Ha ha ha ha ha!") and surrendering his formerly neat habits, gradually letting the ship take on the appearance of a pigsty, with unwashed food trays ditched here and there. (Actually, he doesn't seem to really lose it until the third drone, Louie, is lost during a meteor storm, leaving a solitary mechanical foot embedded in the gridwork for the other two to cogitate over.) But he knew he couldn't face the music (even though his alibi probably would have been bought) when the Berkshire came looking for him after he went into "silent running" on the far side of Saturn--where he was unreachable by radio until sunrise (he should have known that Saturn rotates in a mere 10:16, hardly enough time for the ship to take on such a careless look, but nobody said his orbit was geosynchronous)--and that's why he made his ultimate decision. The ticking clock toward the very end, while quite ominous, is also quite touching. I recall that, when I saw this movie as a nine-year-old, I cried. This gentle man wanted nothing more than to feed his rabbits or let the bittern alight on his arm, but the establishment wouldn't grant him those simple pleasures. His tortured reminiscences of Earth--with its steady 75-degree temperature, entirely mechanized surface, etc.--reminded me of Dr. Sevrin (the immortal Skip Homeier) in Star Trek's "The Way to Eden," lamenting over how the "synthesized, mechanized, homogenized" world was to blame for his contraction of Synthococcus novae. Pauvre petit, he was probably right, even if Tongo Rad and Irina Galiulin misread his message and failed to stop his mass-murder attempt. But Sevrin got his: the Tree of Knowledge on his new Eden was, after all, a Tree of Death.