Okay, I have seen Clerks and Dogma. Since his film debut in 1994 with Clerks, Kevin Smith's direction has taken a different step with Jersey Girl. Yes, it's a bit sweet and there is no Silent Bob or Jay who are just annoying anyway. In this film, Ben Affleck who I love is a star publicist married to Jennifer Lopez who played Gertrude, his wife and the mother of their only child, Gertrude or Gertie. Raquel Castro does a very good job in this role where she is up against Affleck, George Carlin who plays Pop or the girl's paternal grandfather, Stephen Root and Mike Starr are cast along as Pop's working class friends. Before any of you pack your bags and move to the Highlands, you should be aware that the Highlands is located with a terrific view of New York City. Nearby is the Sandy Hook National Park where they have my favorite beaches. Before September 11, 2001, you could have seen the whole New York City skyline on a clear day. Sadly, it's not the same anymore. Anyway, Kevin Smith allows Oliver played by Affleck to lose his wife, his job, and his New York City life. He moves in with his father who is working on the streets in the Highlands with Root and Starr. Aside from getting porn movies, Liv Tyler plays a psychology student and a video rental clerk who shows interest in Oliver. I don't know why they didn't have Oliver take the ferry to Manhattan since there is a ferry that goes directly to the Highlands regularly. The Highlands can be quite a commute but it's worth it. With the views and access to the beach and city life, a house can cost a lot. I know Kevin Smith is from the Highlands himself and this movie is really a great Father's Day film. Sadly, one of Smith's major flaws in film-making is the approach to his female characters. Now, I understand that guys and girls as as different as Mars and Venus respectively. I think girls care more about sexuality, pregnancy, and the husband aspect. It might be from the cultural belief that a woman who has a man is one of the lucky ones. I wished that Smith would take on more challenging projects. Yes, you can have your fun with the silliness but try more films with relationships. Jersey Girl is not a bad film but it's not for the cinema. I could see it on cable or network television but of course, you can't get stars like Affleck, Lopez, Matt Damon and Will Smith with small parts. I love the Highlands locations because I was just today and I got a little burnt but it's a great place to visit too.