***SPOILERS*** Really grossed-out movie by Italian director Dario Argento about this young American girl Jennifer Corvino, Jennifer Connelly,who has the power to communicate with incests. Jennifer uses that power to unearth the murdered victims of a lunatic Who's slicing up people in and around the private girls school in Switzerland that she's attending. 

We get a handle on the killer with the help of Scottish entomologist John McGregor, Donald Pleasence, who realizes that Jennifer can get in touch, telepathically, with flies. It's the flies who can lead her to the murder victims and thus identify who the killer is. It's suspected that the killer has this tendency to keep his victims at his, or her, home as some kind of trophies of his sick and bloody work.

Jennifer ends up running away from school by her being mistreated and made fun of by her fellow classmates and teachers, because of her strange talents, and stays with Prof. McGregor at his home. Trying to get in touch with her father's lawyer Morris Shapiro, Mario Donatone, in New York to come over and take her home Jennifer is approached at the airport by Frau Buckner, Davia Nicolod. It's Frau Buckner who's responsible for bringing Jennifer to the exclusive Swiss girl school. Frau Buckner tells Jennifer that she has a ticket for her to get a flight back home to the USA . The only problem is that the ticket is good for next day and that Mr. Shapiro won't be coming over. 

With the entire night and next morning to wait for her flight Frau Buckner invites Jennifer to stay over at her place. This sets up the movies blood and guts spilling as well as maggot and fly swarming climax. 

The films plot doesn't hold together with a number of unexplained and unrelated sleep-walking scenes by Jennifer and the fact that we have no idea if all the killings were done by the same person; Like the first one by someone obviously not the same killer. Argento more then made up for that inadequacy in the sheer terror and unnerving scenes he put into the movie. It also could be that the US version of the movie "Phenomena" is some thirty minutes shorter making it come across very disjointed. 

As the killer came out of the shadows it became evident what the killers reasons were sick and deranged right from the start before he even murdered his first victim. A dark past and even darker secret that turned a normal person into a homicidal maniac who blamed everyone for the sufferings and trauma that he, or she, went through. Now everyone regardless of guilt or innocent, in the killers deranged mind, will have to pay for it.