For the most part, I found this to be a very satisfying movie. People are way too hard on this movie, and they have improper insight about it. This film was good, and Halle Berry was a much better Catwoman than Michelle Pfeiffer. The only reason why many people liked Pfeiffer better is because she was a backed by a certain dark knight that couldn't have possibly been in the new movie. 

To begin with, Catwoman is supposed to stand alone in this movie. That's why her name has been changed from Selina Kyle to Patience Phillips. That's also why her costume is completely different and why the story has nothing to do with the original Catwoman. Also, of course she isn't going to look like Michelle Pfeiffer's character. This isn't supposed to be Batman Returns 2! It's not even a spin off. Elektra is a spin off to Daredevil, but this was supposed to shine more light on a not so popular character in the DC Comics series. 

Patience Phillips is not supposed to be the new version of Selina Kyle. Patience is a new Catwoman. As the movie explains, there have been many Catwomen, and Selina Kyle was one of the previous ones. That's another point that I feel necessary to express, because that is something that I've heard many people criticize the movie over, as it was a completely new character that had nothing to do with Selina Kyle. It's not supposed to!

Another major problem with this movie is that there was another certain comic book flick that sparked new light on the box office ratings for that time frame that was released only weeks before. Yes, I am specifically referring to Spider-man 2. Almost everyone that saw Spider-man 2 loved it, and it was a smash hit movie the summer that it was released, which was the same summer that Catwoman was released. I think that everyone that saw Spider-man 2 and loved it expected Catwoman to be just as good, or close, because it was two comic book films that were released around the same time, and that's what disappointed them. Catwoman is not nearly as good as Spider-man 2, so if you haven't seen it yet, and you're expecting it to be as good as Spider-man 2, I hate to be the messenger to tell you that that's not what you're going to get, but apparently, it seems to be I have to be the one to deliver the bad news.

The only complaint that I had about the movie was that Sharon Stone bombed as an actress, and that affected Laurel Hedare's potential charisma. She was a terrible actress in this movie, as you could tell she was saying a line when she spoke, but it barely affected my overall opinion of the movie, because it's not even noticeable unless you pay the attention that it takes to notice. In other words, you have to know that that's what you're looking for. 

This is a good movie, and I strongly disagree with the complaints that many people had about it in past reviews. I believe that they were just looking for things to find wrong with the movie, because they expected another Spider-man 2, and with my regards to the many who agree with me, this isn't nearly as good, but it's still a very good adventurous ride that will cause you to think differently of Halle Berry if you always thought ill of her before.

8/10!