First there are a number of positive things that can indeed be said about this "film". As a stand alone movie, its a romp, a great Dukes of Hazzard including viruses adventure. Lots of gratuitously enjoyable T & A, action so densely packed you need to blink a little more often than normal to get ready for the next scene. And lots of good clean action-film fun. However, this was NOT a stand alone movie, it had a basis of rules we have come to expect this universe to obey. It had a very well laden rather uncommonly found, and well built foundation, and it is obvious that the makers of this film decided to completely ignore that foundation, thusly as a sequel Transporter 2, well, what can be said is that this was one of the worst sequels ever, why? Because it obeyed all the tried and true bad sequel rules, the most major two of which are addition of flavors, and acceleration of importance, both of these, thrown in with a brand new love interest, and a near cameo-appearance type performance by François Berléand, where he played a masterful and taught protagonist in disguise in the first movie, he played something more on par with Brain, the dog character from the inspector gadget cartoon, whilst the transporter himself, turned from a simple character with simple values, into an international super spy, relying more on gadgets and stealth, than his fists or personal cunning, but i digress, back to my previous point. The addition of a female assassin, who is so sexy she in fact does not wear a full set of clothing once in the movie, her entire wardrobe consisting of lingerie, and fishnets, with the occasional super thin robe, just screams desperation from the filmmakers, as an addition of flavor. While the first movie, had a more humanitarian plot, as the problem in question was not plaguing the planet, had it continued, it would not be on ones doorstep, but none the less is a hot political topic, whilst, the sequel, was more James Bond (not bad mouthing the legend mind you) and over the top than anything, as an acceleration of importance, this is supposed to put you into a state of recognition as a REAL threat, whereas this scale of global threat, presented in this fashion, was too unreal to ever even begin to believe. If nothing said so far as put this movie in bad perspective, then let me sum up the worst of scenes, in the entire movie for you, a bomb, threatening to detonate soon, is attached to the bottom of the transporter's super car, and so faced with this threat he decides to jump his car over a docking area, very close to a dangling chain with a hook on the end, so close in fact, that it hits the bomb attached to the bottom of the car hard enough to yank it off, without altering the trajectory of the car at all. In the shortest of terms "Perfect stand alone action film, devastatingly bad sequel"