Produced by both Ms. Watts and Mr. Norton and directed by John Curran maker of We Don't Live Here Anymore (2004), and also produced by Ms. Watts. The Painted Veil was originally released in 1934 and starring one Greta Garbo then filmed for the second time as The Seventh Sin from 1957. Now, we have the 2006 version of the 1925 novel by W. Somerset Maugham (1874 - 1965) and whose title from Percy Bysshe Shelley's verse "Lift Not The Painted Veil Which Those Who Live" is taken from.

The Painted Veil is as stunningly beautiful in its vision of 1920's China's political and geographic landscapes as its sensitivity of the marriage vows and the way in which it deals with infidelity, regret and possible forgiveness.

This love story has Kitty meeting young, intelligent, introverted and somewhat dull Dr. Walter Fane, whose forte is the study of infectious diseases, and the convenient marriage that she finds herself committed too. It is in a web of intrigue, and dark clouds, that they head for mainland China. So much as to hide her from herself as to help thwart a cholera outbreak, and possibly cure his failing marriage also, but this is a marriage more than on the rocks. This is a cold, indifferent and loveless partnership in a vast unknown and deadly environment that will test both these flightless lovebirds and with the hardships and tolerances more than any had ever anticipated.

A cinematographer of Stuart Dryburgh's standard, like counterparts' Emmanuel Lubezki for The New World (2005) and Christopher Doyle for Ying xiong (Hero, 2002) has shown us a landscape that is both breath taking and visually involving. This green and unspoilt landscape is the beautiful backdrop to a plague more deadly than any microbe could ever conquer, for here, amongst the tranquil rivers and the magnificent hills, forests and mountains of deepest China lies Pride; the 7th Deadly Sin.

This is also driven home by the sensual music that is playing throughout by Alexandre Desplat that brings home the sensitivity and grandiose of both the heart and soul of both the Fanes and their enchanting but precarious quarters. Together, with the visual and the emotional aspect of The Painted Veil and its undertones of love and love that wanes and the holding onto the fragile heartstrings that have become stretched and worn. All this is done with fine acting and finer movie-making, a calibre that is more than fitting and respectful of an Independent movie as this, a total pleasure to be enthralled and entertained by.

The Painted Veil is a virtuoso of what a period piece should be, detailed, refined, eloquent, charming and overall spectacular.

The Painted Veil is more than a slow boat to China; The Painted Veil is a slow and enduring flight to movie magnificence.