A dozen years had passed since Tobe Hooper's classic film The Texas Chainsaw Massacre was made. And you would have thought that Tobe and company would have had time to conjure up a worthy sequel. This time they'd have the money that would allow them just about anything they wanted to create on screen. But after watching this disaster, one cannot help but be reminded of the old adage that "sometimes less is more".

The original film was shot in four weeks under brutal conditions and with a budget that must have run in the tens of thousands of dollars. This time the scale is larger, and most of it obviously shot on actual sets. Tom Savini was on board to provide some disgusting gore that the original lacked. They even had an experienced star like Dennis Hopper to give top billing to. How could this film have missed? Well first of all, the tone is more comedic than frightening. This film is not at all frightening, nor does it seem to be trying to be. The original had a few moments that may have provided a chuckle or two, even if by accident. But it is painfully obvious that nobody is really that concerned with scaring the audience here. Even back then, they had to have known that gore alone is not scary. At the most it only provides the audience with discomfort. So this sequel lacks the suspense, the claustrophobic atmosphere, and basically all of the tension packed into the original. Not a good way to go, Mr. Hooper.

The cast is not bad. You wish Hopper would have a more carefully defined role than that of just an ex(?)-lawman trying to avenge the death of the wheelchair-bound Franklin from part one. Hopper was seeing a career resurgence at this time, and maybe they just figured he'd provide even more zaniness as he battles Leatherface chain saw to chain saw. Hopper would go on to state that this was the worst film he ever made. Jim Siedow is the only returning cast member from part one, and gone is the edginess from his earlier performance. He and Bill Moseley are only going for laughs. Bill Johnson is an active and menacing Leatherface, but here he's made into too much of a sympathetic character by the third act. Caroline Williams is decent enough. She appears to have had a physically demanding role, and she sure knows how to scream.

Go ahead and watch this film if you must. Especially since the Red River football weekend is coming up very soon! But by the time these creeps are chasing Ms. Williams around the bowels of a deserted amusement park, you will be disappointed. You will miss the tension, the atmosphere, and most importantly the scares from part one. Tobe Hooper's career had begun to slip by this point, and this film did him no favors. In fact the films of this series only seemed to get geometrically worse with each additional sequel or new meditation on the original idea. 4 of 10 stars.

The Hound.