If anyone may have had doubts that a play based on such macabre and controversial subject matter as murder for the sake of intellectual excitement could be successfully adapted into a feature film suitable for audiences, visionary director Alfred Hitchcock proved more than up to the challenge of meeting such apprehension head on. Like the majority of Hitchcock's other celebrated works, Rope was based on an existing literary work (Patrick Hamilton's play, which originated on the London stage) and tapped into such familiar themes as the perverse glamour and fascination induced by the concept of murder. Despite the fact that many of his classic works exploring such areas of interest were made later on (Strangers on a Train and Rear Window being the most obvious examples) Hitchcock proves equally comfortable delving into his predominant area of interest in Rope as in any of his later works, culminating in a devastatingly powerful and incessantly interesting vintage film. 

As well as being one of Hitchcock's earliest successes, Rope proved to be arguably the director's most experimental picture, technically. Apart from being Hitchcock's first film shot in colour, Rope was filmed almost as a form of 'cinematic play', shot in seemingly a single nonstop take, one of the film's most intriguing and innovative features. Since the amount of work involved to actually film 80 minutes nonstop would have been nearly inconceivable, Hitchcock was wise enough to break down the film into several roughly eight minute installments, each transition marked by zooming into to a stationary object which obscured the screen (a man's back, a table, etc.) to mask the editing cut - a subtle and clever enough technique at first, though as the film progresses, the editing transitions become more and more tiresome and obvious, and one begins to wish Hitchcock might have found slightly more innovative ways of masking his camera. Despite this minor criticism, Hitchcock makes marvellous use of his camera considering the enclosed setting (apart from the opening establishing shot, the entire film is set inside an apartment loft) and the film boasts some of the most impressive cinematography of the decade. 

The film's script, adapted closely from its stage incarnation, is an immensely intelligent and compelling piece of work, commendable for unflinchingly examining a rather morbid line of thought - the thrill of murder simply to prove one could, and for the ensuing intellectual exhilaration. Taking notes from writings by Nieztsche and Freud, the script blends its philosophical and psychological ideologies without missing a beat or dampening the suspense in the slightest. Though the film might come across as a bit "talky" at times, as proves the case for most theatrical adaptations, apart from a disappointingly static and anti-climatic ending, the dialogue crackles, and the characters presented are vivid and realistic, making the dark subject matter all the more unsettling. The lack of a consistent musical score compliments the tension wonderfully; the only background sound provided by an eerie solitary piano played by one of the characters. Rather than a more familiar tale of mistaken identity or the like, Rope proves to be one of Hitchcock's darker and more intellectual efforts. 

As always, Hitchcock draws impeccable performances out of his stellar cast and it is difficult to find a weak note in a performance piece so airtight. James Stewart is on top form, playing mercifully against type as a cold and sardonic academic, and giving one of his strongest performances as a result. As the two murderers, Farley Granger and John Dall are superb, playing off each other with effortless grace and energy. While Granger may toe the line of melodrama periodically, his emoting is consistently believable for one in such a predicament, and the audience genuinely empathizes with his character for the majority of the film. Nonetheless, he is easily overshadowed by the show stealing Dall, who masterfully blends slimy charisma, fervent intellectualism and an undercurrent of menace without missing a beat. The supporting cast, in particular Joan Chandler as a feisty college friend and Edith Evanson as a suspicious housekeeper give similarly excellent performances - the disappointing exception being Sir Cedric Hardwicke, who comes across as too unemotional to create a credible character, but surrounded by such charismatic performances, such a minor complaint goes nearly unnoticed. 

For one of Hitchcock's lesser known films, Rope proves a triumph of vision and cinematic prowess - an intelligent script given credibility by a highly capable cast, and complimented by innovative and fascinating technical maneuvers. To this day, Rope has lost none of its power or effortless class, and proves an excellent watch for any in the mood for a concise and captivating thriller as only Hitchcock could have delivered. 

-9/10