The life story of Bobby Darin from sickly kid to pop star to reinvention as a Vegas crooner.

Showbiz is one of those games where even if you don't think it is important, the people that make movies think that it is important. Maybe because they too are in showbiz! I also wonder how much of showbiz behaviour is influenced by films and TV where spilt milk isn't something to cry about -- it is something to jump of a roof about! 

(Do Oscar losers really go home and "kick the cat" -- yes, according to this!)

The character under the microscope had a couple of hits in the 1950's and a very big ego. He was also very sick as a child and was never expected to even be an adult no matter a 15 minute pop star. Lots of ticks and obvious Hollywood drama here, but the modern audience couldn't really care less. To be crude here we have a B leaguer on stage, record and film. He might even have been a better actor than a singer -- as he says in the movie proper "I have been acting all my life."

Kevin Spacey is too old to play the teenage Darin, indeed I feel a bit insulted that he even tried. Maybe this was a three actor job and the budget didn't run to it? Or maybe Spacey is as deluded as the man himself. As the film goes on Spacey becomes better and the b/s alarm in your head stops ringing. As a singer Spacey could hardly be better and he might be an even better singer than the man himself -- he has a more powerful set of pipes. Darin had breathing problems and couldn't do that soaring notes that we hear here.

Spacey is not a bad dancer either (taking in to account he is not playing one) despite being a bit tubby. He should have trained a bit harder before taking the part. There is one too many chins on display.

Love interest Sandra Dee is cast too young (Kate Bosworth) and Spacey (the director) doesn't learn the Cary Grant trick. As you get on a bit have a female lead who is in her thirties so the audience don't see you as a dirty old man. Standing side-by-side they look like father and daughter - which they could easily be in real life.

Darin was a one hit wonder and when the nightclubs dried up and beat pop came in the charts he became a dinosaur -- even at the time. Indeed he is probably viewed more kindly today in the same way the swing is now viewed in its own bell jar, like jazz and blues.

The sideline actors are strong (including Brenda Blethin as his mother -- or so he thinks), but they are mostly wasted as they follow the line that bio-pics have to follow. They don't really have a life of their own and spend all their time looking on at someone else's. Not only that, they seem uninterested in the few lines they have and seem to be phoning them in. Bob Hoskins being some kind of exception -- he acts his head off when only watching something from the sidelines.

Darin went back to Vegas to earn money to pay for his medical bills. Nothing wrong with that and nothing wrong with playing for people that couldn't care less as long as the drinks keep coming and wheels of fortune keep turning. We all have to pay the bills. Doesn't fit in with this Hollywood account though.

Watching the credits run (and run) on my TV screen I think they should have also slipped in the people that paid to watch this in the cinema. There can't have been as many as those who actually made the thing!