Don't mind about the trailer,which is quite ridiculous indeed:this is Tim Burton's best movie since Edward Scissorhands and Batman Returns.

Roald Dahl's unforgettable novel is faithfully brought to the screen,as we see poor boy Charlie (Freddie Highmore,much more cheerful than in Finding Neverland)winning a trip inside the local chocolate factory. And it is an AMAZING factory:almost entirely built from scratch,with limited use of CG,it's a pure and simple visual joy,reminiscent of when the director gave cinematic life to Gotham City. Along with Charlie there are four other kids,perfectly played by the young actors.The only problem is the obnoxious, TV-obsessed Mike Teavee (fitting surname, huh?),who's even more boring than in the book,the only character you really hope will get in trouble. The Oompa Loompas,all played by the same actor,Deep Roy, are very enjoyable,even in the musical numbers,not really necessary ,but charming (they're voiced by Danny Elfman,whose score is terrific as usual).

This really is a Tim Burton movie,and you notice that from the beginning:the snow falling down and even covering the Warner Bros.logo,the camera moving inside the factory,which reminds of the opening sequences of Batman and Edward Scissorhands,the thrilling music... He's even made it more personal by adding an interesting back-story involving Willy Wonka and his father(a welcome return to creepy characters for Christoher Lee). Which brings us to the real reason you watch this movie,the amazing chocolatier...Johnny Depp! He's not acting, he IS Willy Wonka,and he's obviously enjoying himself,portraying someone who's twice as mad as Jack Sparrow,sorry,I mean,Captain Jack Sparrow.Depp and Burton working together is always a guarantee of quality,and this fourth collaboration of theirs is a perfect return to the weird,slightly Gothic movies that made us love them,after their recent,and rather good by the way,mainstream efforts(Big Fish and Pirates of the Caribbean). Don't get me wrong,children can watch,and love,this film,but it really is something everyone should enjoy,no matter how old they are(actually,when I saw the movie,there were only 4 or 5 kids,and 20 adults).

I haven't seen the original movie with Gene Wilder,but thanks to Tim Burton and Johnny Depp,this version is already a classic. I'm really looking forward to seeing Corpse Bride and any other movie they might make together.

Batman Begins aside,this is the best film of summer 2005.