xxx2 cast - Ice Cube, Willem Dafoe, samuel l jackson, Scott Speedman Dir - lee Tamahori

the bottom line first - "It is too tough to create a good sequel" - Dir Terminator 2 (James Cameron) 

This movie starts good and than by the time u spent with the movie,it will start collapsing.

This is the worst piece of direction by the director Lee Tamahori, it was not understandable that a movie being produced under the banner of Columbia pictures is miscast-ed like this, specially when considering the (new)xXx's girl friend. 

Scott Speedman and Samuel L jackson were good but the rest of cast failed to show their worth. What made it more worst is the waste of money on Tank sequences. This movie lack the BEYOND BOND theme line - (as in xXx Vin diesel said "Shaken and Stirred"). The director seems to be obsessed with fly over blast situations (like car crash in Along Came a Spider's first scene) . the gizmos and gadgets wont make the movie a worth to watch - the thing that works on the silver screen is the cast and how can u make a larger than life sequence to look realistic on the screen. this is what the xXx2 lack.

The scene when xXx2 barged into the "enemy's" ship and trooper with the tank and rescuing from the bombs, the climax on the train sequence will make u bore. the movie also seems empty as there is no Single threaded phenomenon for the movie.

The "So clever " sound effects failed , as no body can explain the Escape sequence of THE xXx2 from the jail. if an helicopter was upside the jail roof, where was the crackling sound of it? Ice cube jumps in the air for a 3 to 4 seconds and suddenly one helicopter appears there he grabs his paddles and flee , and after that u will have it all, every pulse of the helicopters knocking engine. Not to forget, specially the climax following a train with a car and getting in to it while driving the car on RAILWAY TRACK. 

Is this the same Lee Tamahori who directed DIE ANOTHER DAY? 

And very precisely this hi-fi and confidential agency wont have any clever faces.

So the bottom line written above is no exception, too stupid and too dump for a secret agent movie- While watching the movie (if still want to go for this) please do not try to remember the "THE NEW BREAD OF SECRET AGENT" - tag-line of xXx, the vin diesel starer .

i have a better option for u - Watch JOHNNY English (ROWAN ATKINSON will prove to be a better secret agent then Ice Cube) Instead 

3 out of 10 (this too is over rated)