From a technical aspect Peter Jackson's 2005 version of King Kong is so obviously superior of this original version they hardly merit being mentioned in the same breath. But this version in that not yet tacky RKO jungle set still gives one a feeling of horror down to the marrow of your bones as modern man of 1933 faces the primeval forces of nature that have survived out in the Pacific.

Certainly there are some absurdities here. The RKO jungle set which was originally used for The Most Dangerous Game and then for King Kong was not a cliché yet to be seen a hundred or so films during the life of that studio. Still fans of the classic films can't possibly miss those same sets and stock footage. No wonder the Tarzan series eventually came to this studio.

Of course the South Sea island natives don't bear any resemblance to folks of African descent. But a lot of black people were grateful for the paycheck as extras to be natives here during the Depression. 

But for 1933 the special effects were a marvel, the creation of those ancient Jurassic beasts and the 50 foot gorilla that was King Kong still make you gasp. 

Most of all the sincere playing of the three leads all of whom got their career roles from this film. Stalwart Bruce Cabot, helpless heroine Fay Wray, and brash producer Robert Armstrong do make you believe in their performances. Even Fay Wray who mostly just screamed and looked helpless got more out of that than most actresses do with a few pages of dialog.

I marvel also at the expressions that Merian C. Cooper and Ernest B. Schoedsack's camera recorded on the miniature that served as King Kong. Movies were only six years away from when they learned to talk, so I think it helped that so many who must have worked on King Kong had experience in silent film. Look at the range of emotions they capture from the beast, watching him is like watching a performance from some of the best of the silent screen stars when facial expressions and much gesticulation had to compensate for lack of dialog. Especially that death scene in the end, like seeing Pagliacci.

I must have first seen King Kong as a lad on WOR channel 9 when that stationed filled its broadcast time with a library of RKO classics. It was probably before I was in kindergarten, it fascinated me then.

And it still fascinates me now.