When I saw the previews on Jetix, I thought it was created by Butch "Fairly OddParents" Hartman, but it was created by Bob Boyle, who worked with Hartman on that Nicktoon. I was surprised that it was not only animated by Flash, but it had better jokes and dialogue, not to mention really good story-telling. When I first saw Yin and Yang, they looked like a butt- kicking version of Buster and Babs Bunny from TINY TOON ADVENTURES. When I first saw the grumpy panda Master Yo, I was thinking cool. But cool turned to nice when he spoke. He sounded like Bubs from Homestar Runner dot com. The jokes and gags are beyond hilarious. This show broke the scale. In the episode, "Finding Hershel" the screen split into three parts. You first see the middle part. Then comes the upper part. Yang looks up and he says, "Wow!". Then comes the lower part, and he looks down and says, "Hey, neat!" Woo-Foo is a sort of like a combination between magic and marital arts. The villains are also funny. Apart from the fruity Carl the Evil Cockroach Wizard, who makes characters like Brother Herman (an ant with a Scottish accent, who is allergic to pandas) look normal. The Night Master is modeled after Jigsaw from the SAW films, Fastidious is modeled after a James Bond villain from YOU ONLY LIVE TWICE. Ultimoose is modeled after Steven Segall mixed with a shade of Mr. Crocker's spazziness, Yuck is modeled after Oscar the Grouch, and the Chung-Pow Kitties are modeled after Hello Kitty and the Powerpuff Girls. Now let me tell you why I give this a 9.5 out of 10. It is because of the following: Ultimoose and Saranoya. One is a chauvinist moose, who not only thinks of himself but also thinks of the male gender. The other one (boy do I hate her) is the cat/devil character who uses her magic to use Yin to be on her side and wipe out the male gender. Plus, she has a gnome sidekick who is a male and is on her side, but in the TV-movie WOO-FOOGEDDEN, he quits working for her. Going back, Saranoya is a sexist! Did you see the way she behaved in front of men and boys, such as Yang? Nasty with a capital N! So YING YANG YO or YYY is such a wacky show that fun for the entire family. Rated TV- Y7 for fantasy and comedic violence, mischief, crude humor and all manner of wacky going- ons.