When this film came out, much comparison was made with Bergman's films; "Scenes from a Marriage", etc. The photography and tone of the film are consistent, moody, and true to life.

Geraldine Page is excellent, as the estranged wife, whose husband, E.G. Marshall, has decided to leave after many years of marriage. Diane Keaton is also good, as Renate, and Mary Beth Hurt, who I loved in this movie (I did not like her in "The World According to Garp"; too predictable) she is so much better when given real roles.

Maureen Stapleton portrays the new wife, as E.G. Marshall says:..." I'm 69 years old....for God sakes I want to have some fun"... Basically he wants to travel and enjoy his final years. His first wife, Fitzgerald has been deluding herself that their marriage will work; they will reconcile; apparently she has had nervous breakdowns before.

Woody Allen was right on the mark, portraying alienation within families. There is not a lot of screaming and verbalization, just as in many dysfunctional families. Control and denial play active roles. The facade was ostensibly perpetuated by the Page character, who uses art, and controlled color themes throughout the entire movie. As Sam Waterston says..."I can't stand her beiges...everywhere"...; when Page brings Joey (Hurt) a vase for her NY apartment. The stark cold reality of their life is evident, as Joey says..."why do you even stay with me?"...and she gets yet another job in advertising..."thank God it's temporary"... I thought the character of Joey was the most developed; she is confused and angry, unhappy with work, and guilty about her mother's emotional disorder. Renate(Keaton) is the true talent, the writer; the third daughter, Flyn, is an actress in Hollywood (..."I know what I am"...she says, discounting her starlet career).

The Stapleton character is also an integral part of the story, and there are some beautiful scenes on the beach, in monochrome, where her costume is the only touch of red. Quite good subconscious imagery.

I sincerely wish Woody Allen would do more of these movies. This was a serious character study which shows his real talent. There are not many movies of this calibre, which can touch a person, and portray real and damaged people. While some of his later movies were enjoyable "Crimes and Misdemeanors", "Alice"; few had the resonance and sensitivity of this film. Watch it; you will not be disappointed.