There's a lot of great comments about this film, but I have to say I'm wondering how the movie biz works. I'm mean, I've seen great films but sometimes it seems like they come out like 1-3 yrs after I see them at the festivals. I'm a business major and I've got a second major in film production/marketing. So this is still new to me. I saw the film in Jacksonville, Fla with my parents and girlfriend while on break from school. I have to say, I was pretty blown away. I didn't know any of the actors and I didn't hear too much about the story until I started at NYU, but I talked to some friends when I got back. I told them to go see the film once it came to NYC for a special screening at a fest over here in September. Now these guys are all film majors and English lit guys. They all seemed to dig it too. I noticed the hottie from Playboy, Angela Little. Nice, babeeeeee. My girlfriend lost her mind when she saw one of the actors in the film and got a pic with him. They had a contest to win a date with him (Sonny Mandal). Even though I didn't know who he was and I don't think anyone else did either, but there was a ton of women who wanted to win the date, one of them being my girlfriend. Hey, what the heck! OK, this sounds like a blog now. Sorry. So here's my take on the film - acting: not too bad at all considering I never heard of any of these guys, but they were good to watch (as they say), story/plot/drama stuff: I guess it could get pretty emotional, but the story was allegedly based on true events and the intense moments were nicely broken up by some funny moments too, characters: pretty believable, especially the guy playing Arjun and the one playing Bobby. There's a scene with the neighbor and he's real good too. Anyway, I'm not sure why it is not a film that is out there already. It's a 9/11 film with a wedding, tragedy, comic stuff (not corny - thank God), and intense life drama. It's not Shakespeare, but it's got all the elements (almost). Best to these guys. Good work. See it if you can.