Disclaimer: If you're a hard core ID supporter and think Fox channel is fair and balanced, then this might be for you, regardless of the bad reviews./disclaimer

This is a review of the first half of the film, since that was all I could stomach. It makes an excellent point of why ID isn't considered to be at par with, or even in the same ball park, as Darwinism. Why? Because it base its whole argument on the imperfections of Darwinism, not on scientific evidence supporting ID. Just like ID this film turns to emotions, not science or even logic. It's poor science and it's poor journalism.

It begins with various film clips showing the erection of the Berlin wall. Making a parallel between the iron curtain, separating freedom and fascism, and the unwillingness of science to accept Intelligent Design (ID) as a valid theory of the origin of life. From here it's all downhill.

We're presented with interviews with people who were supposedly fired because they dared to affiliate with ID in one way or another, but the employer's take on the situation is never presented, which is a strange way to do journalism.

Then follows various attacks against Darwinism with "funny" film clips inserted to ridicule anyone pro-Darwinism. Interesting take for a film who seems to think ID and its supporters are being bullied...

A visit to something called "The Discovery Institute" leaves us with a guy making his case why his institute isn't about religion by saying that they even have "muslims" working there. Yeah, because muslims don't believe in god...

I turned it off shortly after Ben Stein wrinkled his forehead and looked concerned when one of the ID guys said that he'd been told that science wasn't about democracy... Of course it isn't! It's about SCIENCE. You present evidence that support your claims, you don't take a vote to see which theory most people "feel" better about.

I was expecting something more clever, and more of a case for ID, not the usual misinformation about, and slander of, Darwinism.

Best part of the film - The 3D journey into the cell, that was pretty cool.