GODS AND GENERALS 

Aspect ratio: 2.39:1 (Panavision)

Sound formats: Dolby Digital / DTS / SDDS

An epic account of events leading up to the battle of Gettysburg, in which Gen. 'Stonewall' Jackson (Stephen Lang) led a successful campaign against Federal soldiers on the battlefields of Virginia.

The second film in a proposed series of Civil War re-enactments - the first was GETTYSBURG (1993), and the third will be "Last Full Measure" - financed out of his spare change by media mogul Ted Turner and directed by Ronald F. Maxwell, GODS AND GENERALS is a gargantuan enterprise which recreates an important moment in history, like the widescreen epics of a bygone era. It's reverent, dignified, staid, humorless and dull.

The movie's major stumbling block is Gen. Jackson himself, a brave but contradictory man, given to using religious doctrine as an excuse for his zealous pursuit of victory, and his pious devotions are both sanctimonious and bland. Maxwell's screenplay (based on a book by Jeffrey M. Shaara) clarifies a wealth of important details, and gives both sides an opportunity to argue their case for war, but it refuses to shrink from the hypocrisy of Confederate attitudes - they prize freedom above all other values, including the 'freedom' to enslave an entire race of people - while Jackson himself is portrayed as a liberal-minded fellow who hopes to see an end to slavery one day (though not before he's killed as many Federal soldiers as possible, because of their 'wicked' insistence on ending it sooner rather than later). Unfortunately, Jackson's liberalism plays like a sop to modern audiences who might otherwise have viewed him as a racist...

The hollow melodramatics are emphasized by an intrusive music score (by John Frizzell and Randy Edelman) which swells repeatedly at every juncture, but the movie only comes to life during the noisy battle scenes (depicted with the help of various societies devoted to historical re-enactments), while the actors - including Jeff Daniels as Lt. Col. Joshua Chamberlain (the central 'character' in GETTYSBURG), Robert Duvall as Robert E. Lee, and a huge cast of familiar faces, many of whom don't even rate a screen credit! - struggle mightily with their Olde Worlde dialogue, peppered with soul-stirring speeches about the dignity and tragedy of dying for a noble cause. Spare us.

Anyone looking for an entertaining Civil War epic should check out the TV miniseries NORTH AND SOUTH (1985) and its sequels, all of which bear a striking visual resemblance to Maxwell's pageant, but aren't so po-faced and disingenuous.