Inspired by the widely published real-life memoirs of Holocaust survivor Adolf Burger, this tense and highly gripping world war II period drama tells the tale of Salomon "Sally" Sorowitsch (Karl Markovics)- a skilled Jewish artist and identification/currency counterfeiter who's forced to spearhead a covert Nazi counterfeiting operation set on destabilising the British and North American economies by flooding their financial systems with forged notes.

Book ended by post-war events in the life of Salomon (Markovics' haunted expressions and facial idiosyncrasies tell all), the film largely tells of his lengthy ordeal within the Sachsenhausen concentration camp and his tortured team's complex, life-threatening and principle-ridding struggle to meet the unlawful demands of their Nazi capturers.

In a truly remarkable yet strenuous parable that recurrently tugs at the heart and soul strings while drawing ever-so-slight levity and even laughs on occasion, The Counterfeiters (like most Holocaust orientated pictures) rarely fails to shock or disturb, rivet or touch. It is a sincere, severe and enthralling discussion of what constitutes the right and the wrong, the good and the bad, the true and the false. And it does so with such strength and style. 

Director Stefan Ruzowitsky draws spectators into a darkly iniquitous world that and confronts us (effectively) with the detainees' differing inner and outer conflicts, feelings and exertions. Many of the grief-stricken men are unable to accept the circumstances and conditions they have been presented with while their families, friends and fellow Jews continue to suffer in the ghettos and concentration camps of Auschwitz and beyond. Especially Loszek (Lenn Kudrjawizki) and Burger (August Diehl) who both struggle in finding reasons for living a life of such fraudulent injustice, the latter: persistent in his refusal to aid the enemy in their bid to wage the war despite overwhelming pressure from the rest of the counterfeiting squad intent on day-to-day survival in the cornered-off camp. Is their integrity inferior to their existence? Their counterfeiting forgery of their own moral and religious principles? Their lives worth living? These are, in essence, the primary questions that play on the minds of Salomon, the counterfeiters and, indeed, us as we're forced to endure their torments both up close and personal.

Inviting numerous comparisons to Shindler's List and The Pianist, The Counterfeiters could well be a masterpiece. It's terrific, outstanding and as touching as it is important. Possibly the finest film to emerge from European cinema since The Lives of Others. Watch it, then watch it again, as Ruzowitsky's telling tour de force is far afield from synthetic. Inches from perfection.