With today's constantly evolving modern cinema, it's hardly surprising to see another unsuccessful animated film. Competing at the box office with the like's of such high budget releases as the celebrated Shrek series, Finding Nemo and Shark tale, and with awe-inspiring computer graphics moving ahead in leaps and bounds, the bar is undoubtedly set very high. It is not, however, an unreachable goal, Hoodwinked, a highly recommendable film by the little known Kanbar Entertainment and The Weinstein Company, was a great precedent for lower budget animated films. Happily Never After, unfortunately, fell far short of the mark.

While it follows an acceptable plot line (lending heavily at times from a variety of different unconventional fairy tales, though still maintaining a somewhat unique touch) numerous failures in aspects across the board, including in the development and construction of scenes, as well as the characters that populate the simple and minimalist environments, leave a bitter after taste. Shallowly explored relationships between the characters, unconvincing vocal-animation synchronisation, poorly devised dialogue, primitive character models, and a severe lack of story content at several points, make for a wholly disappointing film. The film-makers apparent assumption that viewers wouldn't notice the occasions where material has seemingly just been abruptly edited out and patched-over to fit the desired time-length is somewhat insulting (such as the way the 'evil guys' are brought together). Also, the professional voice talents of Andy Dick (Mambo) and Wallace Shawn (Munk) are put to terrible waste in this film, only exaggerating the rifts throughout its flawed construction.

That is not to say something cannot be taken away from this film; the colourful and uncomplicated detail, along with the almost spoon-fed plot-development offer an easily viewed experience, though perhaps more suitable for young children.

Happily Never After needs to be taken all the way back to the drawing board and remodelled to address a wider demographic, create a more in-depth and believable character-viewer experience and the often irritating narration needs to be revisited.

P.s. Amongst the heavily commercially-populated scene that is animated films in today's modern cinema, it is important that lower budget films that deserve recognition be acknowledged. Supporting deserving films leads to an enriched genre.