There's no doubt this is a very well made movie. It's definitely high ranking. Script, acting, direction, sets, music – all in a high game. Got that over with. You've probably heard that the beginning of the film is a glamorised portrayal of crystal meth addicts. It's well made, such that it would appeal to people interested in a sort of slow, illegal, decadent experiment with self-destruction. That is to say, it would appeal to plenty of young adults who want to be bad. Nothing wrong with that. In fact I'd say it's a good thing. Even the ancient Greeks had a structure for allowing that kind of rebellion to happen in a controlled way. This film is part of our current establishment structure for expressing our occasional wishes to reject all authority (even benign authority). So far so good (or should I say bad). Anyway, the plot's interesting, and Kilmer is good. (I seem to be in the minority that enjoys Kilmer's low-key acting.) The plot's even a little noble, if you agree that revenge for massive personal injury is a noble thing. It certainly makes for a great story. It's maybe even one of the oldest stories. So, if it's well told, as this one is, it's gripping, as this one is. For me though this film was annoying on a few fronts. First, so much is made of Kilmer's character's tattoo that you have to be the kind of person who romanticizes tattoos to enjoy it. Next, so much was made of the glamorously seedy depiction of the crystal-meth takers in the long intro that you have to romanticise self-destruction by narcotics to enjoy it. You'd have to romanticise it so much that you are willing to buy the suggestion by Kilmer's character that self-destructing on narcotics brings the self-destructors close in a way that is otherwise unachievable. (I don't see that it does - I think that's one of the illusions that recreational drugs help create, and it's a trap.) But then, we're on to the big hit of this film - D'Onofrio's character, and his chronies. He almost steals the film, and to enjoy that, you've got to be able to find his portrayal of a psychotic bully amusing. I didn't. I'm sure director Caruso and his crew know that people like D'Onofrio's character really exist - people who laugh while slowly killing someone. They can be charming, as D'Onofrio's character is, but they're essentially gruesomely evil. I can't imagine anyone who's really been at the receiving end of such cruel sadistic violence finding this portrayal funny, as we're apparently supposed to. Which is where the film most lost ground with me. It's basically a film I'd warn people against. I don't think it says much of benefit to anyone. The only redeeming features for me were the naïve and loyal meth-taking friend, Kilmer's character's determination, and the title. Oh, and the Texan Asiatic FBI agent, with his so-unlikely compassion and wisdom was fun, cool, but so unlikely.