Watching the directors cut of 3 hours length not only was extremely intense and amazing, sometimes too fast and hard to follow, but also made me realize how important this movie is for the people of America and the people of the World.

I could easily write tenths of pages about the politico-philosophical content of this movie (more specifically about the JFK Conspiracy) but I just don't have the strength now. Just like many others out there, I realize that seeking the truth and the huge answer to the "why does this madness still exist?" is exhausting. So nobody wants to really do it, instead we go on with our lives, not caring for the truth.

Furthermore, we would be insulted by the public: "What kind of a monster are you to doubt the credibility of the Government". We think it is better not to even think about what could be the truth behind the superficiality of assassinations and "terror strikes".

We need more movies like this one because since it's mass media which is deceiving our beliefs, it shall be mass media to enlighten the facts and doubt the official stories. In 2038 the national archives have to open the files of the JFK Assassination but until then the U.S.A has to be ready to discover the truth because if it is not, we even might never see those important proofs; they will go missing.

I admire Oliver Stone for his commitment to produce a film about what still is a "conspiracy". Doubting the official story with solid counter facts is the best wake up call to the people of the world, to stop thinking about our Governments as Guardians of social values, democracy and liberty. They are not, and realizing that fact is shocking and hard to believe, harder to prove.

I want somebody to produce a decent movie about 9/11, not in Michael Moore style, but in Oliver Stone JFK style, and if it has to be in the year 2039, so 20 years after the actual incident (JFK is released 28 Years after the events of the Kennedy Assassination). Someone has to dare.

Too bad it can't be Oliver Stone again, who has already made his early statement with his apparently neutral, but not so neutral "WTC" movie, which did not question any of the 9/11 facts. Watch "Loose change SE" for a start if you're interested in what the U.S Government is capable of. It will shock you just like this movie might have shocked you, too.

P.S. From a cinematic and rhetorical point of view this movie is very very enjoyable, really sucks you in, that's what I personally love about it.

P.P.S Many people do not agree with my opinion, review, which again proves that this topic is still up-to-date and debatable.