One of my fellow reviewers around here concluded his user-comment by stating "You can find something better to do with this part of your life". Well, no argument there, you can indeed  But then of course, you'd miss out on one of the most joyful, undemanding and shamelessly entertaining American sex-comedies of the 70's. "The Pigkeeper's Daughter" offers a series of silly sex clips connected through an ultra-thin storyline. High up in hillbilly country, the voluptuous wife of pig keeper Swiner worries about the future of their daughter Moonbeam. The girl's already 19 years old and, God forbid, she hasn't found a husband yet! Local boys, like 'stud'' Jasper, frequently pass by to take advantage of willing Moonbeam's luscious body, but they clearly don't have the intention to marry her. Parallel with the steamy adventures on the pig farm, we follow the journey of a traveling salesman. He sings a song about how easy it is to rip off country folks, but it is in fact he who constantly gets fooled. He loses all his money and dignity to a 15-year-old hitchhiker, the pig keeper's wife and eventually Moonbeam herself. "The Pig Keeper's Daughter" is fairly reminiscent to a Russ Meyer movie, but with even less of a plot. All the female cast members have at least a DD-cup size and they're rather open-minded (that is quite an understatement) about their sexualities. The men, on the other hand, are filthier than the pigs wandering around the farm and merely just looking for someone to feast their lusts on. All ladies go full frontal, naturally, but also get prepared to see a lot of hairy and unappealing naked male flesh. Hey, just be glad that the pig keeper, Mr. Swines, keeps his beer-stained shirt and trousers on at all times. The yokel dialogs and accents are extremely amusing, some of the gags are incredibly tasteless and misfit (for example, the salesman encountering a tied up guy) and therefore all the more hilarious and the women's casting clearly just happened based on their chest measurements. What's there to complain about?