After watching this film you will be able to recognise all the other films that are based on Robin Cook stories: they are pretty formulaic.

The plot starts off slowly, and then gathers pace towards the end, which is just as well, or else we would notice the holes in the plot.

Why does Susan Wheeler, a doctor, get hysterical about a refrigerated room full of corpses in body bags? If she and Michael Douglas are both doctors, on doctors' salaries, why are they both living in that cramped, squalid apartment? At the Jefferson Institute, how do both Ashley and Susan Wheeler go into that room fool of suspended bodies without any shades on, when they all had to wear shades during the visit? If Susan Wheeler is at her wits' end, why does Richard Widmark only give her the weekend off? If the janitor knows that they are using carbon monoxide to put patients into comas, why does he tell Susan Wheeler, don't they have police in Boston? How is the janitor killed by a high voltage electricity, wouldn't the cables be insulated for safety reasons? Susan Wheeler finds the electrocuted janitor. Why does she scream if she is a doctor? Why doesn't she do something? If she knows that the janitor was about to tell her something about odd things going on in the hospital, why doesn't she tell this to the police when they come to investigate? When her car fails to start, why does she take the subway, when on her salary, she could afford a cab? When Michael Douglas decides Susan Wheeler is telling the truth and finds a pair of pantyhose at the bottom of the ladder, how does he know they are hers? When Susan Wheeler and her colleague are discussing the skin from cadavers that got under their fingernails, didn't the medical school not issue them with rubber gloves? And, as another commentator asked, what DID happen to that guy who was locked in the freezer with all those cadavers? 

The film is exciting in places, but the whole thing is just a little far-fetched. Michael Douglas does not have a very good part, but Bujold, Ashley and Widmark make the best of the script.

This film is like a dish of rotting meat that is heavily spiced to disguise the bad taste.