What can i say? This film was superb. I admit i wasn't to sure about seeing this at first as I was worried about the whole "Sharon" and "Rose" business, but truthfully, this film lived up to my expectations and more.

Now I'm sure you've heard people say "I don't get it" Or "It didn't make sense". This is the type of film I like. Silent Hill is not some cheesy horror film with tacky thrills spilled out here and there, its a true mind thinking story. This plot is more about leaving clues for you too piece together, and is one which you will think about for days, figuring out your own little theories on certain parts. Some people call these "plot holes". Wrong. Any fan of the series will know that in the game they purposely don't be to explicit with explaining things, so that its more in your mind, and that you can imagine your own theories on certain parts.

Anyway, back to the movies itself. The acting was great except for a dodgy one here and there. Radha Mitchell (Rose) really shows here acting talent in this movie, taking centre stage and letting us feel her emotion with her. Her acting was brilliant and I found her performance very believable. Laurie Holden was fantastic, playing "hard as nails" cop Cybil Bennett. I really liked her playing this character, and she definitely did adapt well to the game version of Cybil as well. Alice Krige as Cristabella was definitely one of my favourite performances of the movie. This woman is fantastic at acting, and really fitted the part correctly. Like I said before, there was a "dodgy" bit of acting from Tanya Allen as Anna. Now I'm not sure if they asked her to act like that, but I found hers, along with Sean Beans attempt as Chris, rather dull, and often felt like they were saying the lines without emotion. But, of course, I have to save the best until last. The real shiner for me in this movie, was Deborah Kara Unger as the haggled old Dahlia Gillespie. Great! She played the role perfectly, often leaving me felling very much emotion for Dahlias character.

The setting, was perfect. The foggy/ ashy world was fantastic, looking almost identical to the game, and having said that, so did the "Otherworld". Very creepy indeed.

Overall, this movie was fantastic, filled with excellent acting, but only the script letting the film down. A few cameos from familiar faces from the games will also keep the fans happy.

A must see!