BRANDO, Marlon. (b. 1924) The founder of the mumble-method acting technique, this unusual performer with the naivety of a child and the mind of an infant, struck everyone as an enormously talented, focused and self-deluded, juvenile man. He perfected his mumbling method by avoiding to open his mouth more than a millimeter while he spoke the text; he made sure the tongue would not move more than its involuntary muscles demanded from it; his jaw was totally relaxed and refused to move in accordance with the basic rules of human enunciation. Brando is also the father of the method-method, which he originated. But unlike David Arquette and Keanu Reeves, Brando doesn't think that the method-method was a method employed by an actor when he prepares to play a Methodist minister.

He has honed his skills first with Stella Adler and Lee Strasberg, then with Stanislavsky. Strasberg still raves about Brando's days as his student; he says that Brando did the best impersonation of a chicken he ever saw. Stella is equally full of praise, reminiscing often about Brando's terrific portrayal of an 18th century chair. In one of Marlon's frequent bouts of brilliant inspiration, he suggested to Lee and Stella that they do an acting exercise in which he plays them and they play him. Brando got so deep into his character(s) that he at one point told the two that he was kicking them out of class for playing Brando so badly. Lee and Stella found this humorous and laughed, but only until they realized he wasn't joking. They then told him: "but YOU are Brando, and we are Lee and Stella", to which he reacted by mumbling something no one understood but which was clearly not friendly. When the two refused to leave class, Brando got violent and tried to throw them out of the building, but his feminine side, the Stella side of his double-character act, softened him down and he backed off from throwing Lee through the window at the last minute. After a while, with the help of medication and Brando's family photo-albums, Brando remembered that he's Brando and became Brando again. A day later, wanting to stretch himself artistically even more, Brando suggested that he play Lee pretending to play him, while Lee played Brando pretending to be Lee, and Stella played Brando and Lee pretending to be gay lovers. Lee and Stella, afraid of the results of such a bold experiment, turned the idea down. Brando was unhappy about that, and soon enrolled in Stanislavsky's school.

Armed with both the mumbling method and the method-method, Brando tackled the world of movies. In "The Men", Brando prepared for the role of an invalid war-veteran by spending three years in the Korean War, and later cutting off his left leg. In "A Streetwhore Named Desire" Brando plays a Polish-American garbage man who rapes his sister-in-law and then smashes a TV set over his neighbour's head; he prepared for the role by spending three months in Poland, collecting his friend's garbage-bins, marrying with a woman who had a sister, sleeping with that sister, then by throwing TV sets around his house. In "The Wild One" Brando plays a dim-witted football player who gets a motorcycle for Christmas by Santa Claus, and proceeds to ride it around in circles until he gets dizzy and falls down; Brando prepared for this by becoming a professional football player, reading every book on Santa Claus, learning the geometrical principles of a circle, and riding a motorcycle from L.A. to Boston and back. In "On The Water Aunt" he plays the nephew of a woman who spends all her time in a swimming-pool, who decides to have sex with her when his girlfriend leaves him; for this role, he swam the British channel, called his aunt from Nebraska and... You get the general idea.

Brando was very difficult to work with. While working on "Mutes On The Bounty" he constantly nagged the director that he preferred to sail a ship that has a big moose's head on the front. When Lewis Milestone told him that he wasn't making "a damn Viking movie" Brando reacted angrily saying that mouses were an endangered species and that problem needed to be addressed. Later on, Brando fell in love with co-star Tartita, a Hawaiian girl, and demanded that an extra scene be written in with a massive orgy between the ship's mute crew and the local girls. "I wish Marlon were the friggin' mute he f****** plays in the damn movie," was all the inflexible director would say about the shooting when it finally ended.

Brando has always been there for the underdog. In protest to what America did to American Indians for 300 years he refused to accept the 1974 Blowscar, blaming then-President Ford for not doing enough to "prevent the cowboys from killing so many Injuns". In 1979 he refused the Blowscar because he felt that the world wasn't doing enough to save the Chinese people from extinction. In 1983, he refused a Blowscar because his neighbour killed handicapped squirrels. In 1991, he refused yet another Blowscar because he was angry that he didn't get it the previous year when he had planned to reject it to make a statement about field mice losing their habitat in east Nepal. He has recently taken an active role in fighting the persecution and mistreatment of old Nazi war criminals, and has taken a stand against the misuse of Spaniards in bull-fighting.

Later in his career, having expanded to 3 tons, he did roles only for exorbitantly high fees, usually paid in wagons of food. For "The Score" he received ten tons of tuna, three tons of ketchup, eight tons of burritos, and 10,000 gallons of pure fat. In recent years his roles have been limited to playing whales, elephants, sea-cows, and walruses.