The most awaited superhero film has finally arrived after three years of intrigue and excitement, and it has proved to be beyond all expectations; expectations being higher than ever.

If there is one word to describe The Dark Knight its 'epic'. This is the epic story Tim Burton set out to create 19 years and while he did a good job, he came nowhere near matching this film.

With 'Batman Begins' establishing the legend of Batman, TDK goes all out with Batman's war against evil. Christian Bale reprises his role as billionaire playboy and socialite Bruce Wayne, who is secretly the Batman, Gotham City's masked vigilante. Forming an uneasy alliance with James Gordon(played by Gary Oldman), one of Gotham's few honest police officers, and the new DA Harvey Dent(Aaron Eckhart), the Batman is determined to bring down the remains of Gotham's Mob. Unfortunately for him, the Mob has made a deal with the Joker, a psychopathic killer to rid the city of Batman. The Joker is a conscience-less killer with no motivations beyond chaos, who embarks on a crusade against Gotham's avenger. With innocents dying, and people close to him being threatened, Batman must face of against the man who is destined to be his greatest adversary ever, while struggling over the question of whether is masked crusade is truly what the city needs. Does it deserve a open and honest hero with a face, a 'White Knight' like Harvey Dent? Or does it deserve him, the Dark Knight?

Also appearing in this movie is Maggie Gyenhall as Rachel Dawes, Bruce's childhood friend and former love interest; Michael Caine as Alfred Pennyworth, Bruce's faithful butler; and Morgan Freeman as Lucius Fox, CEO of Wayne Enterprise, who supplies Batman with new advanced technologies to aid him in his war against crime.

With such a talented cast playing their parts to perfection, the action and effects which embellish the script and elevate it to epic proportions, and of course, the underlying themes and motivations of the characters brilliantly displayed, it comes as no surprise that this film is truly a masterpiece!