After seeing the 2004 remake of Dawn of the Dead,I figured that sooner or later I'd try out this movie. After very Luke-warm reviews in it's theatrical release in 2005,I decided to pass on seeing it in the theaters and decided to wait for it on DVD. Finally,after a little bit of hesitation(because up until I read anything on IMDb,I'd heard absolutely NOTHING good about this)and getting my own DVD player,I finally checked this out.

While I cannot say that this film was anything spectacular,save the drippy,messy make-up and physical effects(i.e.guts,brains,blood,etc.),this film does what it and previous Living Dead films have set out to do:namely,deliver plenty of fearsome zombies,being fought off by valiant(if perhaps one-dimensional)survivors.

The story and the characters seem to be an afterthought here. The main heroes here are a stoic but humane guy named Riley(Simon Baker),his partner and guardian Charlie(Robert Joy,who's about the only exceptional acting performance here)and a tough prostitute called Slack(Asia Argento,foxy and intimidating at once),as they go to recover a lumbering,awesome armed tank-vehicle nicknamed "Dead Reckoning"(said to be one of the few true weapons against the throngs of evolving undead)from the blackmailing Chollo(John Leguizamo),who wants to use it against the megalomanaical overlord of the protected city Fiddler's Green,a well-dressed chap named Kaufman(Dennis Hopper,not given much time in this flick to reach his famous frothy,psychotic bad-ass boil here). Due to the breach in security,the protected city is living on borrowed time against the undead,and soon the undead(who as mentioned before are evolving)learn to traverse water,operate weapons and steadily go to breach Kaufman's fortress. It would seem that the purported last vestiges of human society(the film itself is more vague about that than the synapses offered)is in grave danger of being eliminated.

Director George Romero returns to VERY familiar territory here and the work and love of it shows. However,the storyline seems to have a disconnect from previous undead stories,as the characters and the series of events that led to the current movie seem to vaguely explained.Also,it feels like script or acting is for the most part eschewed for the visceral satisfaction of watching the gore splatter. No matter,this film is about fighting off creatures who will either eat you or infect you,and as such,I cannot see how anyone who likes a good zombie flick will be TOO disappointed by this.