First of all: I love the Discworld-novels! Adore them. And I thought no-one would ever be able to make a movie out of it. Well, I was wrong. It was brilliant! I just saw it on German TV. Wish I could've seen it in English but, anyways, I think they did quite a good job in dubbing it in German. 

I didn't think I'd like this movie at all, since I've seen too many of my favorite books turned into movies which were just crap (one reason why, to this date, I refuse to watch any of the "Lord of the Rings"-movies, despite all the enthusiastic critics I've read). But I must say I did like "Hogfather". I read the reviews here before watching it and I was worried none-the-less. But they really did a great job. 

Of course, I don't agree with all the castings of characters and stuff (like the wizards or corporal Nobbs - though I think it'd be hard to find the perfect way to show Nobby...). And yes, there were a few little things a true fan could argue about, but in general, it was pretty much perfect. They stayed sooo close to the books, it's unbelievable. To fans this film really is a treat. The problem with that, of course, is that anyone who's never heard of the Discworld before might find it difficult to get into the movie. But to me it's, basically, a movie done for the fans of Terry Pratchett and his Discworld. It'll never be what I see in my head/mind when reading the books, but, then again, that's an impossible feat anyhow. 

For example, I didn't like Death's mask much, but I loved how they did that "spark" in his eyes. Especially at first. It does get a little weak after a while, but all in all, can't think of a better way to portray him/do his mask. 

To me, it's a definite "must-watch", even to suspicious fans as me, and yes, I do agree with others here that they should do more movies on the Discworld! As long as it's the same people who made this one. 

I will still see my own movie in my head when reading the books, but I can only thank everybody involved in making this movie for bringing this awesome world onto the screen. I hope that I'll be able to buy it on DVD sometime. Didn't have no luck with the computer game (games -?) so far, so I can't wait for being able to get the DVD of this movie. 

And yes, I hope that in the next movie (if there'll be one) we'll get to see more of Ankh-Morpork. There's so much I'd love to see come alive on-screen. 

Anyhow, if you get a chance, watch it. Though, I think it'd really be better if you knew at least a little bit about the whole Terry Pratchett-/Discworld-universe before you do. 

And if you don't, give it a try anyways. 

I give it an 9 out of 10 due to the few things I felt weren't quite as good as they could've been. Still, just loved it!