Aside from very bad rear-screen projection Techniques and irritating "cut to" camera-work, I was riveted. I would really like to read the novel this was based on, although I do not really get a rise out of USSR vs USA novels and moovies. For me to sit through such a film says a lot... It was well acted, especially from the likes of Matthau and Fonda. But then again, Fail Safe was not your mediocre USA vs USSR tripe, dogma, propaganda and stuffed shirt patriotism. No, not at all.

Lots of great talents are in this film, Matthau, Fonda, Larry Hagman, and it says "Introducing" Fritz Weaver, who plays a Colonel with a problem that affects his performance as an Officer, and it is very well acted. Dom Deluise and Dana Elcar have good character roles, Elcar playing an adversarial role to Walter Matthau's character, and very well, too.

Taking into consideration that this film, and Dr Strangelove which was released right before it, were front runners of the trend of great anti-Nuke books and films of the 50's, and 60's, 70's and 80's... I found it quite refreshing. Although the moo vie involves the possible over-told tale of an accidental nuclear strike against Russia (And it is ironic that both Fail Safe and Dr Strangelove are based on that same idea and were released in the same year), it is not anti-communistic propaganda tripe that was stock fare especially during the 50's- Which I find quite distasteful. This trend lasted even into the late 80's and very early 90's, and I am very thankful that it seems to be over, even with period-pieces.

The statement of the moo vie is rather, that the ultimate source of the problems contrived in the book (and moo vie) are not really the machines that failed or the comm systems that were fouled up... But rather instead Men cause these problems and predicaments, and men must solve them, and learn to live peaceably even with cultural differences. And Henry Fonda's statements to the Russian Premiere, are sincere and sound very much like Ronald Reagan and his famous, "Mr Gorbachev, if you really want peace, knock down this (the Berlin) wall." I can respect this much more than I can respect books and movies that come right out and say "Communism is Evil"- And I respected the story that was told in this moo vie very much. And when a story keeps me interested, I can deal with poor rear projection, stock footage of Air force planes that do not match, and hokey-looking special effects, graphics, doodads and gadgets.

Dramatically, most of the actors convinced me that they were who they were representing... But most especially Henry Fonda, who I believed was The President. I do not judge the acting of most of the cast too harshly, because I thought the film could have been edited in a much better fashion. So, I look forward to the next time this is shown on Turner, or, if I can find a DVD or VHS version of this, I would actually buy it.