Underworld: Evolution is a definite disposable film: it is mildly diverting while watching it, but has no lasting impact. A sequel to 2004's Underworld, it is a action film involving Werewolves and Vampires that looks slick, has some decent action sequences and features an attractive lead, but doesn't posses much other than that.

The film opens mere hours after the conclusion of the original, with Selene (Kate Beckinsale) and Michael (Scott Speedman), star-crossed lovers (she's a vampire assassin, he's a unique vampire/werewolf hybrid) on the run from the vampire elite, led by Kraven (Shane Brolly). Kraven has decided to kill the remaining vampire elder, Marcus (Tony Curran), but he has other plans, taking control of the situation and chasing after Selene and Michael, in search of an amulet that Michael possesses.

It turns out that Marcus is the original vampire, and his brother, William, was the original werewolf, and Marcus is interested in planning a family reunion. Selene and Michael must attempt to unravel the situation, with the assistance of an enigmatic stranger (Derek Jacobi), and stop Marcus from unleashing the vicious William on the world.

The biggest problem with Underworld: Evolution is the same one that was hobbled the original, the lack of any character depth to the leads. Selene and Michael are about as underdeveloped and uninteresting as you can get. They are supposed to be in love, and the film even features a graphic sex scene, but there is no heat or emotion between either of them. Both characters are flat, and it is near impossible to work up much concern as to their well-being when scenes of jeopardy are imminent. Yes, Beckinsale is especially easy on the eyes with her curvaceous body poured into skin-tight leather, but good looks can only carry a film so far before you find yourself wanting a little more substance to accompany the pretty pictures.

Underworld: Evolution wins the prize for popcorn film with the most convoluted, back story heavy plot in some time. So much of the film is predicated on having seen, and remembering a great deal of, the original Underworld, and for anyone who has not burned the details of that film into their subconscious, they may have a difficult time deciphering much of what is happening in Underworld: Evolution for a great deal of it's running time. Even with the assistance of several flashbacks at different times in the story, it's difficult to follow until fairly late in the film, and even then certain developments may prove to be head-scratchers.

Visually, the film has the same cold, heavily monotone color scheme as the first, which looks neat at first, but you quickly realize that not only did The Matrix do something similar (except with the color green), but it proves to eventually be a monotonous style. The film's visual effects are often impressive, especially many scenes involving Marcus in his vampire guise and many of the werewolf effects are impressive, also factoring in the fact that this is a film that didn't have the most lavish of budgets (also more than the original).

In the action sequence department, Underworld: Evolution is a little more elaborate than the first, especially of the late film action sequences, and moments throughout are certainly engaging, to be certain. The film was competently made, and not exactly dull, but even so, there is still something lacking in Underworld: Evolution that keeps it from really grabbing hold of you. It is a very middle of the road movie: it's diverting enough to fill two hours, but has no long lasting effects. It is neither bad nor good, it's just there, and that is simply not enough to make for a satisfying experience.