"Gentleman's Agreement" bores in on the problem of American anti-Semitism in unrelenting fashion, even at the cost of being a bore about it.

Gregory Peck stars as Schuyler Green, a journalist who pretends to be Jewish in order to discover intolerance. Only it works too well, both at work and at home, where Green's budding relationship with Kathy Lacey (Dorothy McGuire) unravels as she sweats disapproval from her upper-crust friends in Manhattan and Darien, Connecticut. Will helping do away with a societal ill cost Phil a relationship he holds so dear?

No question "Gentleman's Agreement" is a compelling demonstration of the power of film, as it shed a light on an aspect of American life as no popular entertainment dared before, with marked success. It won an Oscar for Best Picture of 1947, and seemed to change attitudes about what was and wasn't acceptable discourse.

If it wasn't for the acting, directing, and screenplay, "Gentleman's Agreement" might even be a great film. Peck gives another of his characteristically stiff performances, denuding his exchanges with other characters of the slightest traces of doubt or humor. McGuire is a vapid compilation of trite romantic phrases, telling Green she's all his and he's right about everything but could he please give the Jewish thing a rest for just one night? John Garfield shines as Green's Jewish buddy and voice of conscience, mainly because he avoids the same over-the-top acting mannerisms Albert Dekker as Green's publisher and Anne Revere as his mother employ with mind-bending regularity.

Moss Hart's script and Elia Kazan's direction come off strident even when not addressing the film's central concern. When we first meet Green, walking around Rockefeller Center with his son (Dean Stockwell), they look up at a statue of Atlas carrying the world, which the boy compares to his Dad. Later, as Green sweats over what angle to use to get at this anti-Semitism thing, we see him actually cracking a nut in order to underscore the point.

But when the film has an effective scene, it really makes it stick. Like the famous one of Green trying to get a room at the Flume Inn, and confronting the smug manager about whether his hotel is restricted. "Do you practice the Hebrew religion yourself, or are you just making sure?" the manager asks. Or Garfield noting Green's strain from such exchanges comes from not being "insulated" by constant exposure. Even McGuire rallies a little near the end, telling Green she hates what he's made her feel about herself and then confessing her own hypocrisy to Garfield.

I feel a hypocrite myself. If "Gentleman's Agreement" had died at the box office in 1947, I wouldn't be giving it a passing grade now. It's badly dated, and often sloppy in its aim (I wince for that poor guy who gets both barrels for asking Green what he did during the war and thinking it was PR.) But it asks tough questions, gives tough answers, and leaves me thinking like Kathy about all the times I could have said and done more than I did when confronted with intolerance toward others.

"It's really each house, each family that decides it," Green says, and there's no question that "Gentleman's Agreement" has helped many decide it the right way.