This is one of the infamous "Censored 11" cartoons from Looney Toons. Back in the 1960s, the company then owning the rights to the films (United Artists) decided to pull 11 of the cartoons from circulation because of racist elements. Some were incredibly racist and insensitive (even for the 1930s or 40s), though oddly some reviewers have championed the worst of these--saying they aren't offensive. Well, with a few of the cartoons (such as JUNGLE JITTERS), they might be up for debate but some are truly evil cartoons and I just can't see why anyone would defend them (such COAL BLACK AND DE SEBBEN Dwarfs--you have to see it to believe how awful and offensive it is).

My complaint about this one isn't just because it may be perceived as racist by most viewers. Sure, some of the characters are clearly seem to be "happy Negroes" living in the antebellum South--especially one named "Uncle Tom" (now THAT'S subtle!). But my main complaint is that the film is clearly a rip-off of at least two famous Disney cartoons. The pig-like character sure looks and acts like Mickey Mouse from STEAMBOAT WILLIE and the skeletons dancing about are practically lifted from the award-winning SKELETON DANCE. And, this was NOT "fair use" of ideas or characters--it's theft. Despite one reviewer incorrectly claiming that Hugh Harmon and Rudolf Ising were responsible for Mickey Mouse (it was by all historical accounts Ub Iwerks who created and animated most of the early Mickey cartoons and the rights were owned by Walt Disney).

The only positive thing I can say about this toon is that the animation, while derivative, is rather high quality compared to other products of the same era.

My advice is that this and all the Censored 11 cartoons should not be shown on broadcast television unless they are shown with some sort of prologue that could explain the context and reasons they offend. Having them continue to be available on the internet (when you can find them) isn't a bad thing, however, as I am loathe to ban any sort of speech and it is an unfortunate but important part of our history. And if we eliminate EVERYTHING that might offend from our history, then we are left with,...well,...nothing!