To really get the whole "Down With Love" experience, it helps to have actually seen a Rock Hudson/Doris Day film. This is such a loving homage to the uptight virgin/reformed playboy films of the early 1960s, it's hard not to like it.

Renee Zellweger squints and pouts her way through the film as Barbara Novak, a Helen Gurley Brown-style writer who urges women to replace sex with chocolate and by the time they've attained level 3, sex with men is take it or leave it and without the strings-attached love. Swinging writer Catcher Block, ladies' man, man's man, man about town, is on the defensive after he puts off meeting with Barbara for an interview one too many times and she disses him on the Ed Sullivan Show, causing his formerly complacent conquests to shimmy away.

Ewan McGregor is perfectly cast as the cad swinger, and plays him with a tongue in the cheek and a wink in the eye and no trace of hiding that adorable Scottish accent. David Hyde-Pierce is spot-on in the fussy Tony Randall role as Block's editor. Cute-as-a-button Sarah Paulson plays Barbara's editor Vicky Hiller, who professes to be the ultimate career girl but who really wants to be married.

The sets and costumes are perfect; over the top as only the 60s were. The plot twists are typical of the usual sex comedy of the period, even the nearly five-minute soliloquy by Zellweger done in breathy Doris Day style near the end that sums up the whole movie and seems to have been done with no cuts (bravo, Renee!) Tony Randall himself has a cameo as TB, the head of the publishing house for "Down With Love." (It's interesting to note that Randall always had the vaguely homosexual role whereas Hudson played manly in every movie, when in real life Randall was straight and Hudson gay. Truth is, as they say, stranger than fiction!) The split-screen effect so often employed with Rock and Doris on the phone in the bathtub is used a little more naughtily here but in a cute way. Renee and Ewan even do a little song and dance number at the end credits of the type so beloved in 60s sex comedies. No surprise that they both sang and danced winningly in Moulin Rouge (him) and Chicago (her).

I pity the underuse of Tony Randall; he could have been much more effective than he was. Otherwise, this frothy confection isn't a bad way to spend an afternoon. It doesn't take itself too seriously, so you shouldn't either; just lay back and enjoy it, as Vicky's mother would say.