What is this? There is a difference between good and evil? Norrington is NOT evil, his is a noble Commodore of the fleet of Her Majesties Navy, protecting the waters of the Caribbean, making the seas safe for trade. He has the misfortune of falling for a flibbertigibbet girl with no life experience, who is looking for some adventure in her dull life as a pampered Governors daughter, with nothing to do but daydream. She is probably the only women on the island for the poor benighted Norrington to fall in love with. She ruins his life, and then proceeds to ruin it more and causes his ultimate demise. What is that rule about not "crying out" and taking a man's attention away from a villain when you are obviously flailing on the tow lines of a ship.... BACKWARDS????? Having been disgraced and losing his job as Commodore who could blame Norrington wanting to get back something of his former glory as the scourge of the seas against...oops...the BAD GUYS- PIRATES? The love of his life has turned pirate. Jack has slipped through his hands. Will Turner has been a thorn in his side. For a man with his training The Trading Company is making it possible for him to go out and clear the seas and get a bit of revenge at the same time. So far I can see no EVIL goings on from our Norrington, although quite a bit from Cutler. Then to add insult to injury, the writers have Norrington say" that he is not absolved from his OTHER sins". Which sins would they be referring, I saw not sin one in the entire trilogy. All I saw was an admirable officer of Her Majesties Navy performing the duties of his office with honor and dignity. What I am saying is there is a huge problem in the world today and the Trilogy if they see a man like Norrington as EVIL and fail to utilize the talents of Jack Davenport to better advantage with more screen time, in favor of miles and hours of superfluous pirate dreg that is a meandering and pointless as one could possibly expect. Why would anyone want to root for the guys who kill, rape, murder, and pillage, and who would slit your throat before looking you in the eye in reality? Not to mention the unwashed and smelly conditions of their apparel, not to mention, and heavens,...their teeth!!!. I doubt I would have been able to get within ten yards downwind from any of them. Where as the brave Norrington cut quite the dashing figure and no doubt had a nice scented hanky to protect him from the vagrant ethers of a scoundrelly mishap. To make matters worse most of the scoundrels in question have morphed into the vilest of skeletons, and slimiest of sea creatures. A clear and certain inference for me that these are NOT the GOOD GUYS. I am worried for the civilized nations of the earth if this is what is promulgated a GOOD. I clearly love watching pirates, but in reality they needed, as Norrington so eloquently pointed out in the first movie, " a short drop and a sudden stop". Give me a man like Norrington...you can keep the pirates, even the adorable Depp, who would have dropped our butts on a moments notice in preference to the call of the Pearl. After all he did not get all those whacks from all those surly misses for NADA. Thank God for those who made the seas safe from such men. Norrington RULES!! I had a great time with Pirates at World's End, but I am a continuity nut from my theatrical training and stuff like this grates my bones. And there were SO many continuity problems and story line issues. BUT if you are not a critic and you LOVE PIRATEmovies as I do...have fun!!!!! And remember who the bad guys really are.