From the 60's up to the 80's Italian Movie Producers made money with Horror Pictures, Comedies, Spaghetti Western, Giallo, Poliziotteschi and other Genres. But there was another unique Subgenre before: Sword n' Sandal Movies. Many of later well known Directors like Mario Bava, Sergio Leone, Enzo Barboni, Duccio Tessari and many more worked and learned in this Sub-Genre. Sergio Corbucci was one of them either. He should later become famous for directing Spaghetti-Western like Django, Navajo Joe, Il Mercenario, Companeros and many more. Romulus and Remo was one of his first directing jobs and IMO he did it very well. But Corbucci wasn't the Highlight in 1961. People went to cinema to watch the clash of two Action Heroes of that time: Steve Reeve (Hercules) as Romulus against Gordon Scott (Tarzan) as Remo.

Both Actors were allowed to show their muscles and they have some pretty good fights. Next to them there are two attractive women Virna Lisi as blonde Princess of the Sabina Tribe and Laura Solari as an Amazon Warrior. The Story is about the mythology of the founding of Rome "The Eternal City". Romulus (or Romolo) and Remo (or Remus) are twin brothers who were wet-nursed by a female wolf. Surprisingly the Movie follows more and the less the mythology with few inventions. In the storyline there are some flaws but IMO not as terrible as in other Sword n' Sandals. The Action and the Fights are all well shot. There is a high body count but don't worry no blood. During watching it I got the feeling to watch a Spaghetti-Western with a lot of Horse riding and swords instead of guns. Most of the scenes are typically for this genre: a fight in a gladiator arena, a pagan scene, a torture scene and many more. "Romolo e Remo" is a fine entertaining Example for this Subgenre with a nice music too.

Up to the mid 60's the Sword n' Sandal Movies weren't produced any more in Italy. The audience wanted to see something new. Gordon Scott and Steve Reeve disappeared from the screen. Musclemen weren't popular any more. In the 80's a new Muscleman conquered Hollywood: Arnold Schwarzenegger.