Michel Gondry is one of the most visionary, brilliant geniuses to have ever stood behind a camera and shouted "action!" at people. And while many of his products are clean-cut and tidy, another element entirely that also identifies his work is a kind of raw crudeness. In his films he has employed varying degrees of cheaply produced in-camera effects, and in his video clips this is even more apparent; just look at the visceral rawness of videos such as The White Stripes' "The Hardest Button to Button" and "Fell in Love with a Girl", or the old stuff he did with Bjork, and especially the videos he did for his band Oui Oui. In all of these cases, Gondry proves that film doesn't have to look good in order to be good. And so, while the film as a whole may not contain anything quite as visionary as the images seen in his videos and previous films, Be Kind Rewind proves itself to be purely Gondry in the brilliantly crude videotaped "Sweded" versions of various Hollywood films from over the years.

But this isn't the only thing that makes this film genuinely Gondry. Now that he has 5 feature length films under his belt, I think it's safe to claim a common thread found in all 5, applying the "auteur" theory to the French visionary. Despite the striking intellectuality of his first two films courtesy of Charlie Kaufman's vivid, complex scripts, I find that the common thread in all of Gondry's features is naivety; perhaps not naivety, but more a kind of childlike innocence. Human Nature features the wide-eyed Lila and the character of Puff who acts quite literally like a child only just born into the world. In the finale of Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind, Joel and Clementine decide to ignore the fact that their re-kindled relationship will inevitably end just like the last one that was erased from their memories, and just go for it. Dave Chappelle's Block Party, similar to Be Kind Rewind, shows an under-the-mill community ignoring the troubles and difficulties plaguing their lives and banding together for even the briefest and most temporary moment of happiness. The Science of Sleep similarly depicts an adolescent, innocent view of romance as capturing those rare moments of happiness and ignoring the troubles and hardships.

And now, Be Kind Rewind provides us with another innocent, naïve look at life in the slums; the hardships are inevitable and are breathing down the characters' necks; Mr. Fletcher's building housing the Be Kind Rewind video store is about to be demolished, which would leave nothing to fill the big gap in Mike's life; Jerry lives in a trailer underneath an electricity transformer and has to wear a metal bowl on his head when he goes to work to avoid the radiation. And yet, despite the difficulties, what's important is that they all manage to pull the community together for even the most temporary of happy moments.

When you think about it, child-like innocence as a theme is also present in some of his video clips, such as in the "Music Sounds Better with You" by Stardust featuring a young boy who builds a model airplane that glides, or his use of LEGO in the video for The White Stripes' "Fell in Love with a Girl".

In Be Kind Rewind, Gondry puts together a class act of comedy. Danny Glover and Mia Farrow, both of whom always struck me as kind of distant, emotionally detached actors, deliver fun and life-filled performances brimming with joy. But it is the film's two stars who truly deliver; Jack Black, one of the funniest people alive, and Mos Def, one of the coolest. The two riff off one another brilliantly; their dynamic is spot-on and perfect. It's interesting that they are both also musicians; In Gondry's film Dave Chappelle's Block Party, Chappelle says something along the lines of "every comedian wishes he was a musician, and every musician wishes he was funny." It looks like Gondry took the quote to heart when casting this picture. The performances are charming and funny in that Judd Apatow-style with awkward line delivery, long pauses and overlapping dialogue.

But the true heart and core of the film are the Sweded productions featured. This is the kind of film that you appreciate all the more if you are a fan of movies in general, and pretty much every joke only works if you've seen the movie they are trying to recreate. The film truly shines during the re-creation scenes, they are by far the funniest parts of the film; the Sweded films are so outrageously and indescribably crude that one very often wonders, like the characters in the movie, why even bother without even the most basic of production values.

In the film, Gondry paints an extremely naïve portrait of a New York slum community banding together. But then again the movie also features a scene where Frankenstein-esquire electrical shocks literally lift Jack Black's character off his feet and make him magnetized, so a fantastical outlook is more than forgivable. And despite it, Gondry does manage, in the film's finale, to deliver truly uplifting and touching emotions to counter the film's immense absurdity. But in the end, that's just what it is – a romp of hilarious, wildly imaginative, fun absurdity. And fun it is, very fun indeed.