When the film first began, I was bowled over by how visually stunning this film was. Considering it was made by the same studio (Fox) that had recently made the ICE AGE films, I was not expecting such exquisite graphics. Now I am not putting down ICE AGE or its sequel, but they just didn't look as beautifully rendered as the Dreamworks and Pixar computer generated films. Considering that Fox came into the full-length C.G. game later, I can understand this but in ROBOTS they have shown that at least visually they are on par or perhaps even better than rival studios--it was THAT nice.

Unfortunately, while Fox spared no expense on graphics, when it comes to the story, the film came up very short. Most of this is because the story itself seemed so ordinary and filled with clichés--making it a very formulaic film. Plus, unfortunately, none of the characters are especially compelling or interesting--including the plucky lead. They all seemed like characters recycled from many other recent kids movies (such as the plucky and under-appreciated girl). Plus, while many out there no doubt would disagree with me, I DON'T particularly love Robin Williams--his character comes on very strong and takes away from the charm of the story. In many ways, he was so loud and so "in your face" in many scenes that other characters seemed to get lost. To me, the performance was a lot like a very precious 6 year-old who is encouraged to perform for company--enough already!

So overall, the film is gorgeous to look at but very empty and forgettable otherwise. Despite its amazing look, it turns out to be just another kids movie and nothing more. With so many C.G. movies in recent years, this one gets lost in the crowd and doesn't rank among the better films of this type.

PS--While many out there have never played any of the Ratchet and Clank games for the Playstation systems, this movie looked almost exactly like many of the robot worlds from this game. To people like me who have played and loved the games, you will no doubt be excited by the look of Robot City.