The bad ratings for this movie prove once again that most voters here, if not everyone except me (readers excluded) is an idiot ;-)

It is not about defining what stupidity IS - I'm sure none of us needs any lessons on that - but exploring why stupidity is so desirable! Don't believe the text ads on this movie's own website; advertising people are tuned in to stupidity 27 hours a day and are making lots of money promoting stupidity - believe me, I should know. (They're only surpassed by the feeble-minded folks advertising NOVELS.) Stupidity sells, so it can't be that stupid after all.

I ass-u-me most of us would agree with the movie's take on certain political personae, but this should not stop us from picking our own noses. Is stupidity the only road to peace of mind in the Atomic Infotainment Age? Were our TV-less ancestors better off? Maybe not. If anything makes our times & age different, it's that TVs have blown up the individual's importance out of all proportion - how else is it possible that I feel I should be able to solve every problem on the planet with my informed opinion? Or the mad idea that War can ever be permanently abolished, now that so much is at stake, if all of us only really, really wish it.

Like Monty Python's "Life of Brian", the movie ends with a sing-along song and a note of black humor: "History is made by stupid people, clever people wouldn't even try..." We learn that someone in Vineland/New Jersey carries the distinction of having invented the word "moron", and the general history of IQ testing. Other than that, the educational benefit in negligible, but if you don't expect a solution to life's questions like you would from a BBC documentary, it's an enjoyable hour that leaves the brain ticking for a few more. On the other hand, you could benefit from a series of mantras near the end on how to become perfectly stupid:

"No thoughts are good thoughts..." 

"Remember not to remember..." 

"Shift the blame..."

(for the full course google up the guy's name afterwards... yes, I'm not kidding)