It is a genuine rarity when you manage to stumble upon a film so distinctively unique. Evidently, Cyrano de Bergerac is a miraculous example of a unique slice of modern cinema which has its own set-charms put against its own glaring confidence. From the moment I started watching Cyrano de Bergerac I fell in love with the beautifully laden, grand romantic's vision, and gesture which was being laid bare before my eyes. With this glimpse of realisation I knew I was commencing the viewing of an extravagant modern masterpiece.

Cyrano (Gérard Depardieu), a bulky, poetic musketeer with a humongous nose and a man who is both cynical and lively. Due to his nose he deems himself ugly and unfit for the woman he in love with, which is in fact his cousin. In an attempt to swoon his cousin, Cyrano uses his sophisticated charm and wit in the poetry he has written for her. Unfortunately because of his own embarrassment he asks the gallant Christian to pursue the woman with his poems, which leads to Christian falling in love with the lady and so enabling her to misidentify the author of the poems.

Tragedy and comedy can be mixed perfectly, writers such as Shakespeare proved this, as have other geniuses and so does Jean-Paul Rappeneau's Cyrano de Bergerac. There is no denying that Cyrano de Bergerac is a depressing tale, yet I would not accuse it of being cynical and due to the delightful ambiance the film holds you feel apart of something truly heart-warming. Comedy is used as a way of dealing with tragedy and a method of being the "jester" to hide with personal anguish. Cyrano is a flamboyant genius, a man who knows his language, a man so eloquent he's impossible to ignore and a man of both the hysterical and profound.

The brilliantly accurate casting of Gérard Depardieu as Cyrano is truly outstanding because he offers one of the finest male performances of the '90s. It is an unexpected performance from such a huge star. His performance bursts with a controlled charisma and a rare personal flourish which will exceed all expectations. The extravagant and lustrous feel the film has is echoed through its array of stunning set-pieces and costumes. All this helps to create a somewhat surreal, yet natural environment. Every technical aspect of the film is outstanding; from the choreography of the fight scenes, to the scathing conversations, to the fluid camera work and the gorgeously epic score. The film has many running themes, which include masochism, self-indulgence and self-destruction, all enabling a huge deal of character analysis.

Cyrano de Bergerac is arguably the finest period-piece to come out of modern cinema, yet it is built exactly like a classic of another era. Both a spectacle of sheer entertainment and illustrious cinema, tied up with the blending of ambitious lavishness.