Christopher Nolan directorially batted well enough to save the "Batman" film franchise from production disqualification and audience desensitization. Nolan, who helmed the cerebral masterpiece "Memento", goes on a Batman storytelling crusade by depicting the methodology of why a wealthy orphan named Bruce Wayne became a caped crusader nicknamed Batman. It details his childhood, bat-phobia, imprisonment, seclusion, transformation, and heroism. Yea I guess "Wayne's World" is a bit complex, melancholy, and nocturnal but there is no doubt that his "bat"teries are always charged up when predicaments arise. Christian Bale stars as our murky superhero and it was obvious to analyze that the "Good Christian" did not just "wing" his performance. Bale must have prepared intensely: physically, mentally, and even spiritually; just like "Batman" himself. The grand Michael Caine revitalizes the character of the butler/caretaker Alfred with wittiness, buttress, and craftiness. Cilian Murphy found enough brain to play a Batman nemesis nicknamed Scarecrow with wizardry. However, the rest of the "Batman Begins" cast were not thespian superfriends to the narrative. Liam Neeson falls once again to stereotype casting by playing Henri Ducard, Batman's tutor and eventually his foe. Didn't he play this role already like in around 30 other films? Morgan Freeman was miscast as Lucius Fox, a veteran engineer which eventually becomes Batman's Costume Designer and Art Director. Katie Homes did not "cruise" on her way in playing Rachel Dawes, a District Attorney who also moonlights as Bruce Wayne's childhood friend and admirer. Ken Watanabe was impressive as Batman's major nemesis Ra's Al Ghul but his minimal screen time did not give Ra enough raw footage. The primary positive bite of "Batman Begins" is that it is a Christopher Nolan film and the eccentricities he injects to his films (unpredictable conflicts, multifarious situations, and non-linear storytelling) are profound enough to resurrect Batman from the dark side of film franchises. **** Good