I certainly consider myself a fan of eighties horror, zombie flicks and low budget films; and so I figured that put me in good stead to see The Dead Pit; a low budget eighties zombie film - but alas, due to a complete lack of originality and overall poor execution, this film is more boring than your average cult schlock flick. As if the overlong and turgid running time isn't enough to put you off; the fact that the film is completely humourless in the face of it's low budget heritage, and the way that it takes an eternity for a very, very simple plot idea to finally deliver anything at all that even may be worth remembering, might. The film presents a very dismal and morbid atmosphere from the beginning, and the mental hospital in which the film takes place in is well used; but the big positive elements end there. The plot takes influence from better films; chiefly, Stuart Gordon's masterpiece 'Re-Animator' and sees a doctor discover that a surgeon at his place of work is conducting experiments on the dead. 20 years after shooting him and walling him up in the basement, an amnesia patient finds herself in the hospital and claims that her memory has been surgically removed...

Places like mental hospitals and prisons often don't make very god locations for low budget horror films, in spite of the benefits gained from atmosphere, simply because it gives the often talentless writers an excuse to pack their film with over the top and silly characters, rather than writing so that everything fits. In fairness, this film stays away from that well - but unfortunately the time saved on staying away from too many silly characters is mostly spent on the drab central character. Cheryl Lawson is no good in the lead role because her acting is awful, and she's not good looking enough to provide eye candy for the audience. The only decent cast members are the undead; which look fairly decent (certainly a lot better than a lot of other low budget crap), but aren't well used as the mindless creatures find themselves with a few too many brains to convince the audience that they actually have been dead. Director Brett Leonard can be given plaudits for sticking quite a few fairly nasty gore scenes in his film, which see things like eyeball violence and impromptu organ removal; but not much else. Given the plot, the location shoots and the gore - this could have been a winner, but it isn't.