What can I say about A Christmas Story other than fantastic! This movie captures the true meaning of Christmas...the commercial meaning at least. It's perfect for all ages. The story set back in the 1940's gives it an old fashioned look that is warm and cold at the same time. Even though it's hard to relate back to these times, everyone can relate to Ralphie.

Ralphie, the main character played by Peter Billingsley, is a great choice to have as this kid. His smart ass and almost too mature outlook on life gives him an edge that will make kids and adults like him. Whether it be trying to get his mom to buy him a Red Rider bee bee gun for Christmas or trying to crack the code for Little Orphan Annie, Ralphie always has his game face on.

His mother (Melinda Dillon) and father (Darren McGavin) are great as they seem to be on opposite ends of the spectrum at times, and at other times on the same page. This gives Ralphie the edge he needs to get his Red Rider. With his younger brother Randy, the two of them battle through their parent's lamp fights and the dreadful department store Santa, who is more like the department store monster!

All together, these characters seem to pull it together to try and make the best of what will be an unforgettable Christmas. With a great script and narrating by the writer Jean Shepard (who wrote the novel this was based on) this movie has stood the test of time and lasted of 25 years and is still gaining popularity to people of all ages.

Although the premise might seem childish, a boy trying all he can to get what he wants for Christmas, this movie is anything but. Families all over the globe have come to love this movie and make it a tradition to watch it every year on Christmas. Even stations like TBS have dedicated a whole days worth of time slots to show it non stop! Now that is dedication...

Director Bob Clark has given us the chance to become little kids again. Christmas will never be the same thanks to this movie...and I wouldn't want it any other way...