"10,000 BC" is a film which has come in for more than its fair share of vitriol, both on this board and elsewhere. Much of the criticism has been directed at the vast number of historical, geographical and zoological howlers; anyone who enjoys playing "spot the goof" as much as I do will find much to keep them amused.

It did, however, occur to me that the film was not intended to be taken as seriously as the legion of goof-spotters might have imagined. I doubt if Roland Emmerich ever meant to make a film which gave us an accurate picture of life on Earth twelve thousand years ago, any more than the makers of "One Million Years BC" (aka "How Raquel Welch Invented the Bikini") intended a serious depiction of life in the Pleistocene era. It struck me that if the film is interpreted as a sort of fantasy along the lines of "Lord of the Rings" it is actually not all that bad.

The hero is a young mammoth-hunter named D'Leh. (This is, apparently, derived from "Held", the German word for "Hero", spelt backwards. Herr Emmerich, however, evidently failed to realise that in English this would sound like the word "delay"). Most of the film deals with D'Leh's quest to rescue various members of his tribe who have been captured by a gang of horsemen and carted off to a desert kingdom where they are being used as slave labour to construct vast pyramid-like structures. Among the captives is D'Leh's sweetheart, Evolet. (And you can stop looking in the dictionary: "Telove" does not mean anything in German).

The plot has something in common with Mel Gibson's recent "Apocalypto", although I would not rate it as highly as that film. I certainly would not rate it as highly as Peter Jackson's magnificent "Lord of the Rings" trilogy, which has an epic scope and vision lacking here. Jackson was also able to call upon excellent acting from the likes of Ian McKellen and Christopher Lee, whereas the acting in "10,000 BC" is functional at best. The film also lacks the serious purpose of "Apocalypto", in which Gibson was making some serious points about man's inhumanity to man.

Emmerich seems to specialise in making large-scale films which are undemanding but spectacular, such as "Independence Day" and "The Patriot", and "10,000 BC" is another of the same sort. It will never be regarded as a cinema classic, but it is an enjoyable adventure story of the sort that has been popular ever since the stories of King Arthur and his knights were first written, and probably for a lot longer even than that. ("Gallant warrior overcomes evil tyrant and wins the beautiful lady"). And those CGI mammoths were a lot of fun. If you've ever wondered what a mammoth hunt might be like, this is the film for you. 6/10