The last time I had seen this was on TV back in the early 90's. That was to my knowledge the last time the BBC aired this classic. I recently ordered this from Amazon and it arrived this morning and I refrained from viewing it till nightfall. I started it about 10:55pm and it finished around 1:28am as I paused it for a snack break but only for a few moments. Anyway, all the memories came flooding back like it was just yesterday I had viewed this, not the early 90's.

The atmosphere in this is amazing so it is. The music is perfect for every situation, it is creepy and tense, and works wonders for the movie. The set pieces for every location are exceptional too (the graveyards and castle and forest thick countryside). They really do stand out and grab hold of you and don't let go as you are pulled into the storyline through the exceptional music and surroundings. Night time for example when Jonathan was stranded at the pass waiting on Dracula turning up for him, the storm in that scene was VERY atmospheric. The thing is it probably helped that I was watching it when it was raining outside and the wind was blowing strong, that and with it being night made it all the more enjoyable to view.

At this moment in time I am listening to the "Nox Arcana" Gothic ambient album called "Transylvania" and it is giving me goose bumps as the movie is still fresh in my mind, this is because it is not long finished (about 10 minutes ago). I highly recommend this album to those into the creatures of the night and their activities. A nice atmospheric piece listening to it in the dark (like I am at the moment).

The cast in this production is flawless. Louis Jordan as Count Dracula worked really well. He brought a sort of stern not to be messed with look to the Count in his performance, and yet still managed to be seductive to the ladies as well. Frank Finley is on top form as Professor Van Helsing (but when is Frank never a joy to watch). Judi Bowker as Wilhelmina 'Mina' Westenra is eye candy for me. She is a honey so she is. Her performance is not flawed in anyway what so ever. I think everyone else I have not mentioned gave 100% to their roles. The cast was very well chosen indeed, well done!.

In my opinion this is THE BEST version of the book to movie by far. The BBC are damn good at making atmospheric shows (Survivors, Count Dracula). It is this sort of movie (TV movie in this case) starring Louis Jordan that makes me support British horror over everything else when up against other countries in the same genre. 

And in saying that this Louis Jordan Dracula production, along side Hammer Films, cannot be beaten for exceptional set pieces and atmosphere. It's things like Hammer movies and Count Dracula (1977) that make me proud to support the British movie and TV industry when gems like this turn up. I'd like to see Danny Boyle and Neil Marshall do something along this line of movie, they would be good at it. Danny Boyle and Neil Marshall are the new Terence Fisher's of British horror.