first of all ; it was a good movie.more than two hours of entertaining action and emotion.a great way to pass a Sunday afternoon.but anything more than that? or will it actually make comic-fans happy?Nope,sadly..

the problem of spider man 3 is born right into the greatest advantage of it ; great,entertaining super characters.the film has many of them and it is really never boring;but it is just too much to draw together in any clever ways;so the plot is extremely rushed and FULL of holes. everything in the last 30 minutes is just too fast;the action doesn't let you question anything like "why are the odds that Eddie went to the same church with spider man" or "so if this sandman person is a good family guy how does he OK to killing an innocent woman and if this venom is so strong and full of hate why does he runs to sandman for help before even trying to face spider man himself? and more;is spider-man really a jerk that he left that kind of black monster out and didn't even look down to see what happened to it? all of those questions linger in your mind as you run towards the final action scene;which was long anticipated before the rumors of the movie started to come out;and it could have been a really good,classic battle.At least that was what i was expecting when i looked at the rest of the movie (i actually "woaa"ed at the scene spider man saved Gwen Stacy;it was breathtaking)but instead you see characters flying all over;and possibly the most fearsome character of the series;venom; coming and leaving without even a decent fight.

so i left the theater unsatisfied.it is not a all emotion movie like superman returns but it definitely has something burdening it;maybe the goblin shouldn't be in there;so they could save time for spider-man vs venom.it was more entertaining ;even in the animated series!! great action ; great humor (the jj.Jameson office table scene!!) and great drama ; with a rushed plot with holes too big to ignore and an unsatisfying boss fight.

overall ; i can say it was a great movie but it was a disappointment for anyone who has been waiting to see some kind of venom for all these years.this was not what i wanted.