Among fans of Italian Horror, Aldo Lado is most frequently praised for his visually stunning "Short Night Of The Glass Dolls" ("La Corta Notte Delle Bambole Di Vetro", 1971), but, as far as I am concerned, the true highlight of Lado's career is this wonderful film. "Chi L'ha Vista Morire?" (aka. "Who Saw Her Die?" aka. "The Child") of 1972 is an excellent and incredibly atmospheric example for the Giallo Genre which no Horror lover can afford to miss. The film is as visually overwhelming as the, more acclaimed, "Short Night Of The Glass Dolls", but it easily surpasses it in terms of suspense, plot, mystery and genuine creepiness, and it is, simply put, ten times more terrifying. Intelligent, eerie and stunningly suspenseful from the first minute, "Who Saw Her Die" is impressively shot in beautiful yet sometimes uncanny Venice sceneries. The film has it all - a wonderful cinematography, a macabre and fascinating plot, morbidity and constant suspense as well as a great cast - and yet the most ingenious aspect of "Who Saw Her Die?" is the brilliant score by none other than Maestro Ennio Morricone.

The film begins extremely lurid, when a little girl is murdered by an unknown killer wearing a widow's veil, in a beautiful snowy mountain landscape. Several years later, in the beautiful city of Venice, an unknown psychopath is targeting children again. At the time, sculptor Franco Serpieri (George Lazenby) is being visited by his little daughter Roberta (Nicoletta Elmi)... The Venice setting makes comparisons to Nicolas Roeg's "Don't Look Now" of 1973 obvious, and "Who Saw Her Die" is just as visually stunning as the famous British/Italian Horror classic. Aldo Lado really made the best out of the wonderful city of Venice as a Giallo-setting. Elegant buildings, quiet lagoons and picturesque bridges carry equal eeriness as they do beauty in this film. The performances are excellent. George Lazenby wasn't my favorite James Bond (the unmatched Sean Connery is, of course), but he is excellent in his role here. Lazenby, who sports a mustache and long sideburns is hardly recognizable as the man who played the British spy, by the way. The stunningly beautiful and equally great Anita Strindberg has the female lead here, which should be a reason to cheer for all Giallo fans. Strindberg starred in several Giallo-highlights, including Sergio Martino's Poe-inspired masterpiece "Your Vice Is A Locked Room And Only I Have The Key" (1972), which ranks among the greatest Gialli ever, and she is once again great in her role here. Great praise also has to go to little Nicoletta Elmi (then eight-years old), the most memorable child-actress in Italian Horror cinema, who starred in highlights such as Dario Argento's "Profondo Rosso" and Mario Bava's "Bay Of Blood" and "Baron Blood", and who is once again great in this film, in the role of little Roberta. The cast furthermore includes prolific Italian genre-actor Adolfo Celi, and the rest of the performances are also very good. There are not many killings for a Giallo, and the murders are not very graphically gory, especially not by Giallo-standards, but they are terrifying and some of them quite shocking. The suspense and eeriness is kept up from the first minute, and yet the most spine-chilling aspect of the film is Ennio Morricone's incredible score. The incredibly creepy children's choir alone is capable of creating an unspeakably uncanny mood. All said, "Who Saw Her Die?" is an excellent, intelligent and very creepy film and a must-see for Giallo-fans.