Like everyone else, I heard all of the rumors of the production problems that the crew faced and the early complaints of the lack of chemistry between the 2 lead actors, but I loved this kind of stuff as a kid so I saw this film with a lowered expectation. However, by the time that the movie had ended, I realized that I had probably just seen, by far, the best crime/cop movie ever! 

This had everything that I loved in crime movies (as well as the original series) but without the 80's sensitivity toward violence in movies & TV. In other words, this movie makes the 1980's Miami Vice look like the campy 1960's Batman, in comparison.

Farrell & Fox, whom I am not big fans of, certainly changed my opinion of their talents (more so with Farrell as this is the first thing that I've ever liked him in).

To touch on what else was great about the film I loved the music, the locations and the close-ups with the type of film used (some scenes were grainy, almost camcorder-ish, but this gave it a realistic, "COPS" kind of feel). The story was exceptional and my only complaint is that it should had been longer as there could have been more detail in the drug traffiking operations (guess I'll have to wait for a Director's cut DVD). Advertisements put the time at 2:26 but it definitely ends just under 2 hrs, so there is more story to be had somewhere, someplace.

The opening sequence is a non-traditional one with no opening credits at all after the Universal Globe logo and it starts in the middle of another case but, Crockett/Tubbs get interrupted from that due to an informant from a previous case and this informant basically sets up the case for the movie. What I am trying to explain is that they put you right smack in the middle of these under cover cops' lives and you live their lives for 2 hours. This is a sign of superb movie making when a director can accomplish the feeling of you actually being there and Michael Mann succeeds in this.

As far as talk of Academy Awards, not that they matter anyway, but I could definitely see a cinematography nod. However, this is just not the type of sappy crap that the Academy likes so I don't see a nomination for picture or screenplay. But that's a good thing.

In closing, I highly recommend this film for anyone with an interest in these types of stories. If you talk to people and they didn't like it, they just may not have appreciated the complexity of the story line or the artistic visuals of this film. This may, in fact be the type of movie that people have to see 2, 3 or 4 times to realize that this a quality film with a new & unique type of film style. Either way, it is certainly worth a few bucks to see this 2 hrs of living art.