Meet Sonia and Bruno, brand-new and very young parents to baby Jimmy, who have nowhere to live and no way to provide for their newborn son. Bruno is a petty thief, who uses the money he illegally makes to buy jackets and rent convertibles rather than supplying his wife and son with food and clothing. Sonia is basking in the glow of motherhood, and wanders through her days happily and naively assuming that everything will be fine. Until Bruno sells their baby through an illegal adoption ring....

The biggest surprise to me in watching this film is that it's not really about the baby at all. The effect Bruno's sale of Jimmy has on Sonia is so drastic that he becomes panic-stricken and immediately gets Jimmy back. After that, the film sticks with Bruno, and we see him fall deeper and deeper into a hole he has created for himself. The child of the film's title is not Jimmy but Bruno, and Sonia as well. These are kids trying to raise a kid, and to watch them try to do so is painful, heartbreaking and depressing.

I was completely distracted by the fact that the baby not once cries, despite being dragged around on buses, left in cars and abandoned sheds, passed around from stranger to stranger. I couldn't believe how unrealistic the filmmakers had treated this part of the film when they bring an almost documentary-like approach to everything else. But then the ending came along, and I realized that the absence of tears throughout the film was a dramatic device. For at the end, the tears come, but not from Jimmy. No, they come from Sonia and Bruno, who crumble into one another's arms and cry like babies out of the fear and desperation at the overwhelming responsibility of life.

I thought "L'Enfant" was well done, but at the same time it left me cold. We're not given much reason to care about Bruno, so watching him make one stupid decision after another gets tiresome after a while. The film highlights a problem, but it's one we already know exists, and it doesn't do anything in the way of offering a solution, so I'm not entirely sure what I was supposed to take away from it.

Grade: B