(r#82)

I was literally forced, a la Alex De Large, to watch this movie. From the utterly unfunny, painfully self-conscious opening, I knew this was going to be one of those movies I couldn't enjoy if I tried. This is so awful it makes "The Adventures of Sharkboy and Lava Girl" look like "The Lion King". It's a headache-inducing mishmash of movie references, forced attempts at satirical humour and plain stupidity. A completely unlikeable mess that no one with a mental age above six could possibly enjoy. Yes, I know it's just a kids' film. I don't care. Why should kids' films be unwatchable to anyone outside of the target demographic? There are plenty of films that both children, their parents, *and* teenage siblings can enjoy, believe it or not. But this...this... *thing* is just torture.

Not only are the gags so tired, badly timed and sloppily conceived it feels like the film was edited by a caffeine addict, the film dares to beg for our sympathy when the heroes are so unlikeable you wish for them to get killed by the aliens rather than hope for them to win. Chicken Little (yes, that's really his name) is annoying. Plain and simple. He's an irritating dork with a voice that seriously gets on your nerves. The whole "underdog" angle is played up to ridiculous extremes. Literally everything goes wrong for Chicken and he still keeps fighting. Wow, excuse me while I piece the shards of my heart together. It feels scripted as hell. The ugly duckling is annoying, as well. The pig is a Larry the Cable Guy without the laughs. The dad is pathetic. When the gags aren't funny and the characters are charmless, what does that leave us with? Gorgeous animation? The CGI in this film, much like in Madagascar, Shark Tale and almost every other kiddie CGI flick to come out in the last few years, is stale, lifeless, cartoonish and epileptically colourful. To top the disaster off there are a myriad of "hilarious" dance numbers to crappy pop songs from the nineties (the trailer was a warning sign with its rendition of the Numa song).

Bottom line: there's little to like in this movie. There were one or two scenes that I actually liked: I was all for the bullying of the pig, and the King Kong reference was pretty funny. The aliens shooting people up while REM's It's the End of the World song played was pretty cool. I liked the walking toupee, too. Otherwise, this is another bad case of the CGI-flick plague. I'm all for the medium, because there have been very good computer animated movies - Toy Story 1 and 2, Monsters, Inc, Shrek - but if stuff like Chicken Little is the sort of thing we should expect in the future, they should stop right now because I've had it with this mothafacking torture in this mothafacking cinema! Barely worth seeing - 3/10