I saw this film not too long ago. I must admit, it's one of the best films, or in fact, the best British Gangster films I've seen since THE LONG GOOD Friday..

What I like about it was the idea was set in the 80's during the days when Fromer Prime Minister Margeret Thatcher ruled the UK. Nick Love who wrote and directed this flick, certainly gave me (the viewer) the thumbs up! Nick just did it as like 'he'd tell it like it is..'

DANNY DYER who I rarely see, did a good performance playing Frankie.. At first, his character was just a lousy waster, living in South London with his parents. No wonder his Dad was such a drunken sod. But at least, Frankie told him he was gonna 'be someone'.. and he did!

TAMER HUSSAIN who plays Charlie, was also good. I see him as a tough nut who's been there and done that. But living in the Costa Del Sol kind of changed his life a bit. OK! So the guy lived a life of crime but he still does what he does over in Sunny Spain.

GEOFF BELL who plays Sammy.. He was excellent. What I like about Geoff, his performance as Sammy was well mean and solid. He has this kind of stonefaced look, that kind of gives me the feeling that this guy didn't want to be messed around with. This guy was like something out of the Goodfellas movie.. Probably in the lines of Joe Pesci or Ray Liotta. But he really delivered it very well..

NICK LOVE, the director.. did an amazing job on entertaining me with this flick. At least, he knew what ideas he had in his head in order to capture the essence of the 80's. The 80's in them days really did had some good tunes along the lines of Frankie goes to Hollywood, David Bowie, OMD, Blondie, Loose Ends, etc.. I couldn't stop listening to the radio during them days.. It kind of overtaken my school life.. Every time, I did my homework.. I try and do it first thing when I get home.. and then switch on the radio to listen to them cool tunes..

After all, it was a very good film. I reckon Nick Love nailed it right dead in the centre.. He really made a good effort of capturing the whole vibe of the 80's which took me back to my days at school. I had many good memories.. I won't say much about it. But it does bring you back.. even when you say 'where were you during the 80's?'

This film surely blew me away.. 9 out of 10! Good effort!