I met Douglas Adams very briefly once, at a book signing for his first non-HitchHikers novel, "Dirk Gently's Holistic Detective Agency" in 1987. I asked him whether there would be any more HHGTTG projects. He smiled gently before he said "I think that 10 years on the same project is long enough." 

It was, I think, difficult for Douglas Adams to accept that HHGTTG was the one big thing that people would remember him for, especially at that time. He endured long spells in America in the mid-1980s where he tried to adapt his many previous adaptations of HHGTTG into a Hollywood movie screenplay. His experiences of the studio system at that time were less than favourable, but at least he learned how to scuba dive. He was a talented and intelligent writer and broadcaster, but the enormous success of HHGTTG eclipsed pretty much everything else he turned his hand to. I still feel bad about asking him for more of the same when he clearly felt that he needed to distance himself from the HHGTTG juggernaut.

I wish he could have seen this movie because I think that he would have been proud of it. It's taken 20-odd years for CGI special effects to catch up with Adams' imagination, but it was worth the wait. It's not the book or the radio series or the stage version or the album or the TV series (all separate entities in their own ways)but it stands up on its own as a charming and entertaining sci-fi comedy movie.

Shame on anyone who knocks this film because Marvin doesn't look like a silver fridge on legs or Zaphod Beeblebrox doesn't have his second head perched on his shoulder like an animatronic parrot. Douglas Adams wouldn't have wanted movie-goers to watch a carbon copy of what had gone before. The producer, scriptwriter and director of the movie were given access to Adams' screenplay notes (which he had continued to work on despite the 1980s knockbacks) by his widow and they deserve credit for their achievement. 

Douglas Adams was less than happy with the low-budget look of the BBC TV version of HHGTTG, although he had to accept that some of his wilder visual concepts just wouldn't work. For instance, his original TV concept for Marvin the Paranoid Android was a gold-painted actor in a gold leotard. Alan J W Bell, the TV series director, had to point out that (a) this wasn't as funny as a big clunky silver box on legs and (b) there was already a famous gold robot by the name of C3PO in Star Wars.

Despite having worked as a script editor and writer on BBC TV's Doctor Who series, Adams the radio and novel maestro seemed to struggle with visual media. However, the struggle (and the wait) for a movie version was worth it. Douglas Adams (with post-mortem help from Karey Kirkpatrick and Garth Jennings) has presented movie-goers with another unique vision of his personal galaxy.

Having praised its original creator, I DO want to criticise this movie. Trillian didn't get much to do in the original radio series and her role as gooey love interest in the movie is a retrograde step. Zooey Deschanel's flat portrayal doesn't help much either, leaving the only main female character in the movie as little more than an attractive piece of luggage. 

All in all though, I enjoyed the movie and I'd go to see a sequel. More of the same? No thanks. I prefer the way that the movie has evolved from the original. Wherever he is now, I'm pretty sure that Douglas Adams does too.