****MAJOR SPOILERS*** Not the either horror or suspense/drama that you would have expected from the films adds "Bug" is about two very unstable persons who in the end have their fantasies take control of their minds and lives with unimaginable, as well as deadly, results.

Gulit-ridden after losing her six year old son Llyod in an Austin Texas supermarket ten years ago Aggie White, Ashley Judd, has since split up with her husband Jerry, Harry Connick Jr,and became involved with a lesbian lover R.C , Lynn Collins. R,C works together with Aggie in a gay bar not far from her home, a motel-room, in Oklahoma. It's when Aggie get repeated phone calls from someone who just listens but doesn't talk that she feels that her ex-husband Jerry, now an ex-convict out on bail, is harassing her.

R.C brings a friend Peter Evens, Michael Shannon,home to party, on booze and coke, at Aggie's place who soon begins to take over her already fragile mind with stories of him being experimented on by the US Government since he was a soldier in the Gulf War. Going into the entire litany of Illuminati-like conspiracy theories, dating back to the first Bildenberg Group meeting in Holland back in the spring of 1954, Peter convinces Aggie that he's been infected with bugs, or aphids. These bugs are to incubated in his body and then be let looses on the unsuspecting American public!

Aggie who at first feels, rightfully so, that Peter is a bit off his rocker soon becomes convinced that he's on the right track and becomes just as nutty as he is. Aggie's change of heart, or mind, about Peter may have had to do with the unexpected arrival of Jerry, fresh out of prison, who went back to his old habits of both mentally and physically abusing her.

Jerry who has no use for Peter feeling that he's having an affair with his ex-wife Aggie tries to get under his skin, by having him lose his cool and thus get his chance to belt him, but with absolutely no results. Peter seems to be in another world with his obsession of government conspiracies and is only interested in his own body that he's certain has been contaminated with blood-sucking and microchip-like bugs! Yes that's right Peter is certain that the bugs are being used as living microchips, created in a secret US Military facility, to keep track as well as control of the American People.

With his mind now quickly going out of whack Peter goes so far as telling a by now hysterical Aggie that he and Timothy McVeigh, the late Oklahoma City Bomber, were infected with these bugs as a precursor, to see if it works or not, to infecting the entire US population.

With Jerry, having run for his life from both Aggie & Peter, now out of the picture Aggie and Peter, who are now lovers,spend all their time in Aggie's motel-room. The two are left fighting off the invading armies of bugs, who exist only in their minds, with wall to wall coverings of aluminum foil and dozens of bug-busters or defused blue-lights.

The ending has the what at first seemed harmless Peter go both nuts and homicidal cutting himself up, as well as pulling a number of his teeth out, and murdering his US Army appointed doctor Dr. Sweet, Brian F. O'Byrne. Dr. Sweet who came to help the poor and sick man was brutally attacked, when he tried to inject him with a sedative, by an insane Peter who stabbed the man to death with a hidden shiv. Peter in his unstable mind thought that Dr. Sweet was part of the conspiracy to infect the American population with genetically altered and man-made killer bugs!

Living on pizza and donuts in their eerily-lighted and aluminum foil plaster motel-room Peter & Aggie come to the fatal conclusion that the only way for them to prevent the government from inflicting the American population with the bugs is to get rid of the bugs themselves. Being that their the only ones infected with the bugs it was they who were to be gotten rid off!

Mind-blowing movie about mental illness that has you wondering if the bugs are real or not, we never really see them, even when the film finally ends! The fact that the location were the movie was filmed was hit by Hurricane Katrina just days after it wrapped up can also give you food for thought in government conspiracies. Was the hurricane purposely created by the US Government to prevent the film "Bug" from being made and thus letting the cat out of the bag to what it was up to! If it was the Government as usual screwed up by getting Hurricane Katrina to strike there a few days too late thus allowing the movie to be finished.