Oddly enough, I was underwhelmed by this film on first viewing--it was not the non-stop action-packed Bruckheimer-style thrill-fest I was initially expecting. But Black Hawk is in fact a remarkable film. Its slow and meticulous buildup is masterfully executed. The viewer is rapidly introduced to about a dozen characters during the long setup, and throughout the film, we see the action through their eyes. Scott segues from the frenetic to the lyrical effortlessly, from the cold-blue hardness of military action to the warn tones of the sun-drenched country.

Despite my opening comment, the film does have plenty of action, some of it the best ever filmed. The DVD shows some of the remarkable special effects (most of which were completely transparent to me, the before-and-after CGI comparisons are remarkable).

Acting is first-rate, especially considering most of the non-American cast had to adopt some remarkably powerful southern drawls--take Eric Bana for example.

I've always thought Scott was talented, from Alien and Blade Runner, but considered him somewhat superficial and technical. When Gladiator came out, I just remember sitting in the theater saying to myself "when did he become such a Great filmmaker?" Black Hawk confirms his greatness.

A number of sequences are beautifully executed, such as the capture of Atto, the men on one Blackhawk going out to get Bana, the other Blackhawk coming in to bring in Bloom crossing each other over the beach . Another wonderful sequence is the Mogadishu's early warning system as the raid flies in. Sequences flow into each other seamlessly and effortlessly. The scene where the soldiers drop down to secure Blackhawk #2 is one of the most harrowing in memory.

I think Scott makes absolutely no miscues in this one, every scene is deliberate and counts, and there is nothing throw-away or gratuitous.

I read Mark Bowden's book, and the film does inevitably compress some events and combine a few characters, but some of the more memorable characters, such as McGregor's Grimes and Sergeant Pilla were all real.

A final plus: lots of Elvis music.