You can't go into a movie called 'Frankenfish' and expect a good film, but even so; I really thought that this would be (albeit slightly) better. The film takes influence from just about every creature feature ever made, but it's mostly reminiscent of swamp films such as Lake Placid and Piranha. I, however, see it more like a poor man's Tremors on water, as our heroes are doing battle with a monster that homes in on noises. The main problem with this film is that it's so amazingly unoriginal. When the filmmakers were putting it together, I can't believe that they didn't try and inject some form of ingenuity into the script. Anyway, the plot around the central monster is no better than the rest of the film. We start off with a murder that leaves the police baffled. They obviously don't realise that they're in a bad B-movie because if they did, they'd have known it was a huge CGI fish that's doing the killing. The cops decide to send one of their officers and some woman downstream, who quickly run into trouble in a boathouse park (or 'Bayou') when the fish decides to start picking them off one by one.

One of the major flaws with this movie is the fact that they've used CGI. Many bad monster movies have a certain charm about them because their bad effects took a lot of time to create. Here, the effects are bad and look like it took some computer kid half an afternoon to render. The first couple of times we see the fish aren't too bad, but once we get a full view they really become hard to take seriously. Frankenfish tries to combat this with a bunch of grisly death scenes, but they're mostly so over the top that they're hard to take seriously. One involving a shotgun sticks out far too much in that respect. Also, the fact that the characters are all just dull caricatures ensures that the film doesn't have a lot of weight when it comes to their deaths - I really couldn't care. The movie's one saving grace is the swamp location. It's not used all that well, but places like this ensure intrigue as most of us won't know exactly what to expect from a swamp. Anyway, Frankenfish isn't worth seeing - I was bored to tears by the end, and you probably will be too. If you want a monster movie, you can do a hell of a lot better than this.