OK I see a lot of positive reviews here, and I had huge expectations for this movie before I went to see it but I have to say I wasn't pleased with the end result.

I have always been a huge Rambo fan, so I was looking forward to this but I shall explain why I wasn't happy.

The movie was too short, and there wasn't enough screen time for character development for neither the main characters or anyone else for that matter. I couldn't help thinking that this film lacked the magic of the previous three films. One thing I noticed half way through the movie was the absence of Rambo's trademark knife. This for me was a major disappointment, it wasn't just a knife, it was a symbol more than anything which evolved as the Rambo films progressed. I was glad to see the return of the bow and headband, but the knife should have been there.

Apart from that the whole film was just mindless brutality, I really didn't have a problem with the violence, but it was the justification I had trouble coming to terms with. Rambo was immensely barbaric in this movie and most of the killing was unnecessary.

The story for me wasn't strong enough to hold the film. Something else I was displeased with is that there is no reference to col. Trautman, who was integral to all the Rambo films. His death should have been mentioned somewhere in the film or some sort of reference, but there was nothing.

What made the action in the previous Rambo films so unique was the clever traps set in the jungles, none of which we saw in this latest installment of the franchise, I will say it again it was just mindless explosions repeating over and over.

I was glad to see the reprise of Jerry Goldsmith's wonderful music, but it was the same theme playing over and over again. We never heard the triumphant themes which we are so familiar with, and the score just didn't have enough depth.

lastly I have a problem with the title, it was initially going to be called John Rambo, than they changed their minds and called it just Rambo. Why not just call it Rambo 4, since that's what it is. Sly made the same mistake with the last Rocky film and now he is done it again here I really can't see the sense in it.

Overall I just see this as nothing but a pointless action film!