Does Kong live again? The answer for me is yes although, if you'll forgive the cricketing metaphor, he bowls off rather a long run.

But first let's get the unavoidable question out of the way: how's the CGI? Oddly enough, they seem to have got pretty good at close-up facial expressions these days, but distant full-body shots still have that rubbery look about them. Think Hairy Hulk. It's a credit to Peter Jackson, though, that this suits the story's priorities.

After a strong start, the first hour of the movie is heavy going. Jackson really likes his characters, and you have to like that about him, but he indulges them like a favourite uncle until well past bedtime. Apparently Jackson has not heard of the expression "cut to the chase", although this perhaps suits a country whose ecosystem revolves around a flightless bird. There was a nice in-joke about Fay Wray, though, if you weren't out refilling your popcorn. Happily, too, Jack Black is back to being a bad boy and as the dastardly entrepreneur puts in his best performance since High Fidelity.

The second hour or so, after our heroes disembark on Skull Island, contains some splendid set pieces and some somewhat less inspired ones. In some of them I fancied I could tell what some of Jackson's favourite movie action sequences are: some Raiders creepy-crawlies here, a bit of Crouching Tiger aerial gymnastics there, like seeing Kong in his own franchised theme park. Parents are advised not to bring precocious children who might be prone to ask awkward questions about the movie's palaeozoology. All in all, I would have trimmed the Skull Island sequences a bit and saved them for the diehards hungrily awaiting the Special Edition DVD. Unless the 3-hour cut I saw *was* the trimmed-down theatrical release and there are bonus monsters galore in an as yet unseen Director's Cut of Wagnerian proportions.

But there's another scene I would cut first. I don't see what excuse there can be for presenting stereotypes of lip-blubbering, eye-rolling "natives" these days, if there ever was one. The inability to get past these sorts of stereotypes is foolish in every possible way. It's a sad day when you put more time and studio dollars into the verisimilitude of a gorilla than of your fellow human beings.

The movie hits its stride once the crew, or what's left uneaten of it, returns to New York. There is pathos in the beast, and Andy Serkis shows his range in spite of being even more unrecognizable from his last role than Gary Oldman usually is. Naomi Watts is the femme fatale, and a wholesomely winning one. Much has been made of the alleged inter-species romance between the two, but most of the time it felt more to me like an only-child's-secret-friend story, with Watts sometimes appearing to channel Shirley Temple. Adrien Brody is kept busy as Watt's nominal human love interest, though mainly he seems to be there to prove that Naomi has a thing for flared nostrils.

But the movie delivers where it counts. The Empire State sequence is beautifully and dramatically filmed, and you'd have to be Dick Cheney on Botox to have a dry eye at the end of it. There's a great shot of the crusty fighter pilot's face when he spots Naomi pleading for Kong. Jackson doesn't seem to spare much of a thought, though, for the fighter crews whom Kong swats out of the air, or the theatregoers he tramples underfoot. It might have been a better movie if he did, for Kong might then have truly been raised to the stature of a tragic monster, and not just an enlarged and even cuddlier version of Peter Jackson. Which is the least anyone could do for him, considering what our species has put him through.