Warren Beatty used the clout he achieved with the box office smash HEAVEN CAN WAIT as a means of finally mounting his dream project, the ambitious Jack Reed biopic Reds (1981). With tight ensemble, large-scale location photography, and an over three-hour runtime, REDS was certainly intended to be a grand epic that would rake in tons of accolades and awards for director/producer/co-writer/star Beatty. This is the exact type of high risk project that can often result in disaster, but REDS defied such danger and opened to uniformly excellent reviews, became a solid hit at the box office, and received a jaw-dropping 12 Oscar nominations. Beatty finally received the kudos he long sought winning an Oscar, Golden Globe, the Director's Guild of America award, and numerous other national and international awards for his direction.

Any film that achieves that level of success among critics and within the industry is in danger being over praised, but REDS actually lives up to the hype and remains a highly moving, fully bodied movie experience. Typically romantic epics leave me a bit cold - despite their haughty pedigree, I personally find films like GONE WITH THE WIND (1939) and DOCTOR ZHIVAGO (1965) to be technically well-made, but detached and mechanical in emotion. Like those films, REDS emphasizes the romance between Reed and feminist writer/artist Louise Brooks (Diane Keaton) over the historical arc that follows Reeds involvement with socialist/communist political scene in 1910's. But unlike most historical/romantic epics, REDS treats it's characters as real people rather than generalized caricatures and isn't afraid to venture into some difficult territory (which is usually sidestepped by most films of this type in order not to alienate mainstream audiences).

Beatty and Keaton both deliver very impressive performances. Beatty is so utterly convincing as a determined Reed that you completely believe that his faith in such inevitably flawed ideologies is very reasonable and genuine. In many ways, Keaton is even more surprising as Brooks - she displays absolutely none of the bumbling neurosis in which she is so commonly associated and brings a devoted, plucky, and indeed stubborn quality to Brooks that immediately humanizes the woman and her plight. The entire supporting cast rises to the level of Beatty and Keaton, with superstars like Jack Nicholson, Maureen Stapleton (who won an Oscar for her performance), and Gene Hackman abandoning their typical star mannerisms and turning in some of the best work of their careers in bit parts.

The film also benefits form the then-progressive technique utilized by Beatty where he includes filmed interviews with "witness," real-life individuals who knew either Reed or Brooks and were active members of the sociopolitical scene that the picture recreates. Showing amazing foresight, Beatty actually began conducting these interviews in the early-seventies. Many of these individuals are no longer with us and having their accounts on film is priceless in and of it's self. This also gives the film the absorbing feel of a docudrama, presenting multiple accounts of the same story.

The film has the grand, lush look and feel that all epic films aim for, but never sacrifices its intelligence or intimacy in order to achieve it. This is evidenced even in Stephen Sondheim's marvelous musical score, which manages to incorporate period music and original material in a manner that is both appropriate to the on screen action and true to its historical setting. The film is also remarkably subtle, making outstanding use of silence and body language, without resorting to the overboard hysterics of many similar films. Beatty obviously set out to create a masterpiece with REDS, and he succeeded.