(There are Spoilers) Voodoo and Satanic inspired film-noir detective story that at first starts out as a run of the mill missing person investigation by Brooklyn private dick Harry Angel, Mickey Rourke, that leads him to New Orleans and Algeries LA. and the discovery that the person he's looking for is not at all dead or brain-dead, as he was lead to believe. The person in question is very alive and well and in full control of his mental facilities.

Contacted by a Mr. Winesap, Dann Florek, to take a case of a client of his Angel meets him at this Harlem church that seems to practice Voodoo blood sacrifices instead of Christian ethics. Meeting Winsap together with his really strange and creepy-looking client a Mr. Louis Cyphre, Robert De Niro,makes Angel's blood run cold but when he's offered $5,000.00 for his services, from Cyphre, he immediately agrees to take the job.

Told by Cyphre that he's looking for this former night-club and USO crooner a Johnny Favorite aka John Liebing who was badly injured in the last war in the battle of North Africa. Being told by Cyphre that Favorite suffered severe brain damage and was brought back to the states and admitted to this private sanitarium, The Sarah Dodd Harvest Memorial Clinic, outside the town of Poughkeepsie in upstate New York.

As Cyphre goes on with his story he tells Angel that it was always believed that Favorite was a patient at the clinic until recently when he went to visit him finding out, now twelve years later in 1955, that he either escaped or was smuggled out of the sanitarium back in 1943 and has never been seen or heard from since. You get a very uncomfortable chill up your spine, like Angel does, when Cyphre tells him that he's looking for Favorite for one and one reason only: to have him pay off a debt that he owes him and get the impression from Cyphre's tone of voice that the debt is to be paid not in money but in blood!

Eerie and nerve-racking thriller with Harry Angel trying to track down and find, dead or alive, the very illusive Johnny Favorite with the leads he comes up with in his investigation back in NYC has Angel traveling to New Orleans. Tracking down the daughter of Mrs. Proudfoot, Johnny Favorite's lover in New Orleans during the war, 17 year-old Epiphany, Lisa Bonet, Angel gets involved with a number of strange and terrifying Voodoo cults. It turns out that Epiphany, like her late mom, is a high Voodoo priestess. The involvement with Epiphany and her fellow cultists results in Angel being hit or exposed to some kind of Voodoo hex that drives him to the brink of insanity if not beyond it. As Angel slowly uncovers the mystery of just who this Johnny Favorite really is and if he's still alive everyone he comes in contact with in his investigation ends up brutally murdered in what seems like a number of blood curdling and gruesome Voodoo rituals.

Angel finally gets to the bottom of what all this Johnny Favorite business really is all about when he gets in touch with a Mr. Ethan Kursemark,Stocker Fontelieu, who like his late daughter Margaret, Charlotte Rampling,is an expert as well as practitioner of the Black Arts. It was Margaret who Angel first got in contact with in New Orleans that resulted, from her talking to him, in her murder where her heart was ripped out of her body!

It's after his talk with Ethan, and later with Cyphre himself, that Angel realizes the real reason why he was picked by Cyphre to investigate Johnny Favorites strange disappearance in that he himself had a lot to do with it! As the shocking truth about Angel's strange connection to Favorite comes out from his subconscious mind Angel loses it ending up mumbling to, and trying to convince, himself that it's all just a bad dream or nightmare, as the movie ends, but knowing full well deep down and in his soul that it's Not! it's the Real McCoy!