How about this....

Go hire Braveheart, A Clockwork Orange, Shindlers List, Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas, Requiem for a Dream even Shrek or any one of hundreds of great films out there that talented and intelligent people thought of, wrote, adapted, produced, directed and starred in. Now grab your nachos and your beer and go sit down and enjoy these great films you have just acquired.

Please, Please, Please resist the peculiar temptation of watching this film because I fear if you do not you will be back on this great sites message boards cursing those that told you anything other than that this film is complete rubbish and you will desperately be wishing that you had those two precious hours of your life back. I know I did.

For those of you that have seen this movie, I apologise that I didn't write this sooner, I saw MD at least 2 1/2 yrs ago but have only now felt the urge to express my loathing, mainly due to the fact that I recently saw two other equally mind numbing and time wasting films, those being Donnie Darko & Its all about love. I now have a top 3 worst movies ever made list I can chat to my friends about.

Yes, I did experience an odd twitch in my grey matter when this film came out to go and watch it, but mainly because of the hype and that I also thought it would make me think. And make me think it did (but not how I wanted to) All I can say to those of you who liked, even loved this movie (and the other two mentioned above),(and I'm aware that there are plenty of you freaks out there)is this. Please put aside your attempted intellectual interpretations of these films and quit telling those of us that don't feel as you do about such rubbish that we are not thinking enough, or looking beyond the surface, or that we didn't pick up the hidden or obvious clues or messages. These things whether perceived or actual make no difference to a movies watchability, rateabaility or greatness. OK, there may be some people who love to waste two hours trying to decipher some deranged directors intentions or underlying concept, theme, plot or conclusion but just because you wish to do so or actually think that you did find some startling interpretations in the movie does not make it a good one. Most of you are the ones who like to appear clever on these boards by impressing strangers with your irrelevant findings.

Don't get me wrong, I'm not scared of thinking about a movie, I do enjoy the occasional no brainer action flick and a laugh-a-minute comedy but I'm always on the lookout for a thinking mans flick. MD just confuses the viewer by twisting stories, character & dialogue without any meaning or conclusion. I feel a movie MUST make sense even if a bit of thought is involved, this movie does not satisfy any of the viewers thirst for plot, suspense, action, emotion or conclusion.

If you must, view this movie only for its hype or to satisfy your own curiosity. but don't expect much. Do yourself a favour, go hire The Pianist, Amelie, Bad Boys 2, 8 mile, Fight Club, Toy Story, 25th hour, The Girl next door, Dawn of the Dead, Bridget Jones or any other great flick from the Genre of your choice, Sit back, Interpret how you will and enjoy a proper, magnificent film the way Hollywood intended.

If you've gotten this far, Thanks for reading....!!!! Thats my 10 cents, my 2 cents are free.

Dave.....