It's the deliciously debauched and decadent late Seventies, and highly successful fashion photographer Laura Mars (Faye Dunaway) plies her trade in the most sensational manner possible, using New York City as her canvas, painting images of violence and death to sell overpriced couture.

But like some sort of cosmic karmic joke played on her, maybe by Death itself, Laura suddenly receives an unwanted and terrifying gift. One by one, her associates and friends are brutally murdered and she gets to see it all...through the eyes of the killer at the very moment the crimes are committed. And when the mystery psycho suddenly becomes aware of Laura's gift, the murders begin striking closer to home, as he gets closer to her...

A spec script originally written by HALLOWEEN maestro John Carpenter, it was snapped up by producer Jon Peters as a possible vehicle for then-wife Barbra Streisand. When she deemed it "too violent" and demanded certain changes, Carpenter knew when to take the money and run, so he did. David Zelag Goodman (LOGAN'S RUN) is credited with doing the subsequent rewrites which were handled by many others, of course.

It isn't a complete mess, and even stands as a pretty vivid time capsule for capturing the look and feel of that period. Dunaway gives one of her signature solid performances, and Tommy Lee Jones is pretty good in this early role for him, as the cop that Laura turns to for protection and much more.

An also pre-stardom Raul Julia (here featured as "R.J." for some unknown reason) has what amounts to little more than a cameo, and just in case you had any doubts about the setting of this piece, Rene Auberjonois nearly peels the paint off the walls with his totally non-PC turn as Laura's flamboyant best friend and confidante. It's to his credit that the movie seems to lose a lot of its life when he's not on-screen, and his scenes indicate how much fun it could've been if it had just taken itself a little less seriously.

Eagle-eyed buffs can also spot genre staple Brad Dourif and Darlanne Fluegel (TO LIVE AND DIE IN L.A.) as one of Laura's featured models.

All in all, EYES is a fitful but entertaining glimpse back into the "Me" Decade, whose original ad campaign was much more clever and provocative than the movie itself. It's also one of the few films from the period that might possibly do well as a remake with the proper writer and director.

Avid thriller readers, take note: author Dean Koontz revisited this plot line in a similar fashion, in his excellent novel, THE VISION. There had been plans to turn it into a feature film, but they may have been scrapped because of the similarities to LAURA.