Okay, I'll start by saying that I can see why some people didn't like Big Daddy, but he didn't bother me. For the kind of movie it was, there were some good performances and scene stealers all around. Special props go to Pillsbury. I'd have that guy on me team because he knows how to handle himself, doesn't shoot his mouth off when he should be looking out, and seems like a cool guy. Another scene stealer was zombie Savini. What a badass! Hopper played a great jerk and the butler's exit was funny.

Some people have said that the zombies aren't scary, but I don't know if that's the point. To me the Romero zombies in the holy trilogy haven't been scary since Peter and Roger first ran down stairs in the mall. Since then they've been pathetic creatures to be pitied, because we came to understand them through viewing them both in action and when nobody is around. The fear lies in that thy used to be people like us and we'll become them eventually. I liked how they took the treatment of the undead a step further from where we've seen it in the Night of the Living Dead remake and Dawn of the Dead to show a real lack of respect for people who used to be their friends an loved ones and by extension shows a lack of respect and loyalty towards each other, while showing a twisted way of dealing with something they fear and don't understand.

On the down side, I get what someone said about a main character's reaction after shooting someone and things playing out a certain way. There's also a scene which made me think of 9/11 which George Romero could have taken a bit further. I think that was really the one crowd of extras I actually felt for. I never felt the social commentary drug the flick down as much as it felt like some of the characters fit into action movie clichés. I don't mind that though because there's not enough human vs. human conflict in zombie cinema. I'd have liked to see an actual Road Warrior style shootout, but maybe next time.

There was a lot taken from the original script of Day of the Dead, so if you enjoyed reading that you'll probably like this one.