This film is an excellent documentary. Its method of documentary the past is excellent. The cinematography in color and sound is also excellent. The reasoning for camera angles is the key to telling this story, just as the motives of the Zodiac killer himself. A logical design within a design for a theatrical plot.

I camera angle is intended to give the audience a perspective. The audience is what the director intends to persuade with his story-telling in audio-visual format. This is curious since the director of this film eludes to certain facts about the Zodiac killer's character such as listening to record playing music, the type of pistol used, the type of knife used. How was the record of history used? The logical motives of the Zodiac killer was to instill fear in the police by terrorism of children at random. Then supposedly he followed up with phone calls to file their complaint to the authorities. In this movie his complaint was that his lust for terror could not be satisfied no matter how many persons he killed. His lust for the method of killing was also a great influence to his motivation. The use of guns and knives physical violence, while it was communicated to the authorities by himself.

Why did the killer use record music in this film. What was the killer listening to? The Zodiac was a clever code like any language. A logical code based on survival instincts, to feed a hunger. Not like a hunger for food, which was the one intent of the original Zodiac to depict seasonal change for farming. I was based on what we see in the sky, in the stars as direction in our lives. Maybe, he felt like the director in this film when he could hear the beautiful music at his command.

The Zodiac killer is said to have enjoyed killing people more than wild animals. His intentions to conceal his identity within the Zodiac code is curious as the human nature of language itself. Why would both a phone call and written letters be used? Why not just one method of communication. The audio-visual nature of the communication process denotes a separation in the thought process into two motives. The psychosis of what is heard is admission, because the admission of enjoying human torture and death is also self annihilation. The visual code would indicate a second motive to conceal, or mislead, or further terrorism. As with both audio and visual a record can be made as knowledge, this record is his command of reality.

The Zodiac Killer hence enjoys the record he is making of a command of death for humans, and his reality. Because there is some selection process. The Zodiac is human nature's way to determine direction, and time of year. It is at the time of the Zodiac Killer an international coordinate system that is codified as a science. Just as the criminal justice process was codified as a science. His killing tactics however, contradict both his motives and science. His killing tactics are based on terrorism, intimidation, and homicide. His command of science with the use of the Zodiac, writing, and the telephone suggest a logical modus. Hence a planned motive of audio-visual evidence.

I note that given the time period of the Zodiac killer the use of the telephone was not known to be recorded as 911 calls are today for evidence. Or the science and technology for use was not public, thus expert witness of criminal justice system was manipulated to possibly expose some hidden secret of planned homicide and use of telecommunications for criminal justice.