The IMDb's plot outline of King Arthur says "A demystified take on the tale of King Arthur and the Knights of the Round Table." However, this film is far from demystified. In fact, I think it is more mystified than the legend itself. Normally I have no problem with lack of realism or logic in movies, but this movie is simply ridiculous, and its attempts to be realistic just don't work out.

At first I liked this film. I especially liked the concept of Rome in the time of its decline. But then the characters were introduced and I immediately began to dislike them. Especially because they're characters defined each by one trait of their personality and their fighting style. So we remember Lancelot as the womanizer with two swords. We remember Tristan as the quiet guy with the hawk. We remember Bors as the big, loud and rude man (a character we have also seen in countless movies). And the rest I can't even remember. The only character that was really fleshed out was Arthur, and I believe that was done only to distinguish the main protagonist from the rest of the characters. And what was most ridiculous about it is that each and every one of the knights fought differently. Each one of them had his own style. Now, I understand that they are auxiliary forces and not Roman legionaries, but the Roman army was based on order and formations, and it doesn't seem right to me that a force of knights fighting for Rome would fight in such a scattered manner. And when Guinevere was introduced, it grew even more ridiculous. I may not be a historian, but I hardly doubt the ancient Britons let their women fight.

However, more than being ridiculous, this movie's greatest sin is being boring. Absolutely, dreadfully boring. And it's not supposed to be boring. It's a movie that should have battles, action, excitement! It had about three battles, none of them exciting or particularly engaging. And every scene separating those battles was boring. I actually found myself falling asleep during the last, climactic battle. I had to watch the movie a second time to actually finish it.

Also, I should note, that while Clive Owen may be a good actor, he was horrible in this movie. The role of Arthur didn't fit him at all.

All in all, this isn't a movie worth watching. It may have a couple or so good scenes, but the parts of it that are supposed to be interesting and most attracting, the battles, are few and boring to boot. Not recommended.