There are 3 movies that I could watch over and over and over again. Very, very few movies move my heart and soul. Those 3 movies are: Braveheart, Last of the Mohicans, and A River Runs Through It. Masculine movies to be sure, but beautiful as well. 

This movie is beautiful. The plot is not Hollywood type stuff, but rather it is more of a story. The river is the divide, the bridge, the time that cuts across one family's journey in and out of life. It is almost mystical how the story is told. I read the book after I saw the movie, and it was one of the most moving pieces of literature I have ever read, and the funny part is that it is fairly short-a short story to be exact. 

The plot of this movie is about life, and how the river, always constant provides the benchmark by which that life is measured. To be honest, I am surprised that Redford did such Americana-God type stuff as this, but he did. The brothers feelings in the movie are very heartfelt and wonderfully acted. The fight scene in which the brothers fight and Norman has tears in his eyes out of fear, rage, and sadness, reminded me of my fights during my youth. The lessons learned from that were transfixed onto the screen in a flash. That is brilliant film-making folks, to capture true human emotions and thoughts and impose them on believable real people. I loved how the fishing and the river keeps all things equal and true. 

This is a movie about life, and the sadness, hurt, regret, joy that is captured by one powerful river in Montana. The son Paul, played by Brad Pitt, goes his own way, and as a result becomes a master fly fisherman, and a gambler and a drunk. This movie (and book) shows that nothing is ever what it seems, and every person has gifts and liabilities that they must choose to deal with in their own way. Its also a movie that shows us that we can't save everyone, each person is endowed with gifts. But those gifts may also contain the seeds of our undoing. No more waxing poetic. This movie will fill your heart with ache and longing. But it will also make you feel something stirring deep within you at the most basic, fundamental level. "All things merge into one, and A river runs through it".