Beware Sinners: Michael Myers will cleanse the world of you.

I am fully aware of the fact that almost everyone who will go to see this will no doubt have the original version in mind and will be comparing the two the entire time(for whatever reason). However, this reviewer shall not.

The original version showed what Michael had done very briefly as a child, but it was understood what his heinous acts entailed. The remake - if you want to call it that - went a bit further. Michael as a child was presented for at least the first twenty minutes of the movie, as well as his relationships with family and schoolmates. From that, and how everyone around him treated him and the world in general, you can understand that - despite what Dr. Loomis kept exclaiming - Michael was not a vicious mass murderer with no conscious.

Michael, throughout the movie, only killed those who had done wrong deeds (whether to him, to others, or just sinned in general, it was understood, for the most part), and spared who had done no harm. Dr. Loomis's soul purpose in the movie was to show the world that there was nothing but 'pure evil' behind the eyes of Michael Myers: that Michael was incapable of showing mercy, which he could be not be more wrong about. There were several he had shown mercy for, and did not harm at all; but, of course, when he killed, they were vicious and brutal (well, what else could be expected from a movie directed by Rob Zombie, after all?), and at those times it could be understood why Loomis saw the 'pure evil'.

Michael Myers did not kill without conscious. The fact that he was able to show mercy actually made him an interesting character (and arguably the only interesting character in the movie), rather than the stereotypical two-dimensional mass murderer you'd usually find in movies like these. You're not to feel empathy or even sympathize with Michael, but at least understand why he chose and was chosen to have the path life had given him.

The only thing that really grated my nerves was the teenagers in the movie (both past and present), but then, when aren't teenagers in a horror flick a terrible nuisance, right? Probably why most of the audience hopes the bad guy kills them in the end. I recommend it for anyone looking for a gore-fest, at least.