John Boorman's Excalibur is one of the numerous reflections of King Arthur and Holy Grail Story on silver screen. (No less than 262 works exist on the topic) Film tries to represent King Arthur of legend primarily drawing on Malory's Le Morte D'Arthur. 

It is obvious that making a historical film on this topic is very difficult as not much is known on the "true" personality of King Arthur. So Excalibur like many other films made on the subject serves to the legend not to the history. Majority of the central personalities in Malory's Le Morte D'Arthur were given voice in the film.

Although their historical representation is questionable, I found Excalibur's display of historical topics like the relationship between the chivalry and courtly love, transition from paganism to Christianity and Grail story interesting. 

Sir Lancelot is captured between his loyalty to his king and his love for Arthur's queen Guinevere. His chivalry is superior – he defeats all the knights including Arthur himself before joining royal army – but once Arthur defeats him – he becomes his loyal best friend. However at the same time he falls in love with Guinevere. His long struggle with this temptation is extensively depicted in the movie. Aberth claims that it was Arthurian romances – that were largely responsible for linking together the martial ideal of chivalry with the ideal of courtly love. 

It is also interesting that Boorman does not find it problematic representing paganism alongside with Christianity without any conflict between the two. Although it seem like the period of transition from paganism to Christianity – the conflict between two is no evident anywhere. Magic and sorcery is everywhere, Merlin is almost more central figure than Arthur himself, but still we also see Arthur's wedding taking place in a church and other symbols of Christianity around. Lack of conflict between paganism and Christianity is a distinguishing feature of the film. 

Representation of the Grail Story in the film is unusual. It comes out that secret of the Grail is that Arthur and the land are one and there is no religious symbol attached to the Grail. Arthur rejuvenates after drinking from the cup so in a sense he is savior of himself. No reference is made to Christianity at all.

To conclude, although film is not a historical film and based on a legend, it includes important topics from medieval history like the relationship between chivalry and courtly love, transition from paganism to Christianity and the story of Holy Grail, although their historical representation is problematic. Christianity and paganism displayed side by side without any conflict and Holy Grail story is completely de-Christianized in the film.