Sterling Hayden and partners are ready to make "The Killing," a beautifully crafted 1956 film starring Sterling Hayden, Elisha Cook Jr., Marie Windsor, Jay C. Flippen, Vincent Edwards, and Colleen Gray and directed by Stanley Kubrick.

Hayden plays the mastermind in the robbery of a race track. The viewer is shown all of his partners - a clerk at the track (Cook), a bad cop, a strong man, a hit man, and a former cell mate. After the robbery, he plans on leaving town with his girlfriend (Gray). What he doesn't plan on is the interference from the clerk's wife from hell (Windsor) and her crooked boyfriend (Vince Edwards).

The structure of this film is just great and will remind many of "Pulp Fiction" and "Jackie Brown," both of which immediately sprung to mind while watching this. Once Hayden has hired everyone, we see each person preparing for their role in the robbery, though you're not always sure what that role is. When the robbery actually takes place, you see it from the point of view of each person as they play their part. The plot has several neat twists as well. Another interesting thing Kubrick did was not put a "button" on many of the scenes - some of them ended mid-conversation or without the usual finish of someone leaving the room etc.

Though "The Killing" was a B film with a B cast, the excellence of the script, performances, and direction says A! It's very exciting and tense right up to the last moment.

Never a favorite actor of mine, Sterling Hayden acquits himself very well in the lead role. I always found his real-life personality much more interesting, but lately I've seen him in a few things where he was very good, so my opinion is changing. Elisha Cook has a larger role than he usually does, and he's up to the task as a pathetic, naive man in love with the wrong woman. That wrong woman is Marie Windsor who apparently thought her husband was coming into some money when they got married. Not only hasn't he got any money, he's evidently not much in the sack either, and she looks elsewhere and finds smug Vince Edwards. Windsor, a good actress and a good-looking one whose face and body said she'd been around the block so many times she was dizzy, specialized in this type of role. Lovely Colleen Gray doesn't have enough to do. The actor who plays the strong man was virtually unintelligible in everything he said due to a very thick accent.

One odd thing is an encounter between Hayden and Jay C. Flippen, where Flippen suggests that the two of them go away together alone rather than Hayden getting married. Interpret it as you will.

Excellent film, don't miss it. And WHAT an ending!