I wish I had seen this on the big screen as im sure it would have been an amazing feeling to be in awe along with everyone else in the theater of the Divine Jennifer Hudson. The story about an all girl group that start off as backup singers and then come into their own only to succumb to jealousies and betrayal which finally leads to one of them being kicked out is the platform for the sensational rise and explosion of a star being born. Hudson's first rate performance proved America booted her off American Idol to fast and Simon Cowl does't know diddly. The movie itself did not fulfill me as I felt key important elements were not dealt with like showing how the friendship began for the girls and more insight to the relationship of Effie and her brother as well which would have given the act of betrayal from the people in Effie's life more punch. Although the scenes where Effie's forced to step out from the front of the group and then where they push her out completely are haunting as they seem to be almost similar with the only difference being in on scene they are expressing their love for Effie and the next their kicking her out in the streets. Beyonce does an amazing job of channeling Diana Ross while on stage performing and she deserved more props than she got for the role. Another overlooked great performance is that of Anika Noni Rose as lorell who stood her own among the rest of the cast. Jamie Foxx gave an understated performance which I found believable. Eddie Murphy also gave a great performance whose impact and appreciation may have been lost due to Eddie's past comedic roles where he basically did the same kind of voice and facial expressions he used here for the Character of Jimmy. I felt this was a strong performance by Eddie especially the scenes where he didn't say a word and his face said it all. It would have been nice to see him win the Academy Award. But there is no denying that Jennifer Hudon overshadows all these Hollywood heavies in this movie with her knockout performance as Effie White. She owns every scene she is in. The part given more meaning for those of us who saw her through the "Idol" drama where she was accused of not having the "Depth" to compete. Well, after I first heard her sing on Idol I too believed she did not belong there....She belonged in a higher place....her voice was a force of nature. Her talent was bigger than IDOL. Finally the dream has come true for this dreamgirl!!