It was extremely fast paced so much so that it became boring because you could tell that it was rushed. So it was like a meat stew....with no meat. No build up in any of the scary sequences so there's an illusion of half-assed suspense but it's not there at all. Which makes the entire movie 100% predictable. Straight-forward gore, which is not what Halloween is supposed to be about. I mean yeah it's a re-make and he was supposed to make it "his own" but in the reality of it Rob Zombie's "own" is not part of this series' formula so it doesn't work and it's certainly not effective. Immense amounts of cussing so much that it got irritating. Usually I don't mind, I mean, I'm a Quentin Tarentino fan so swearing isn't even on my list of pet peeves. But in a movie like this? It doesn't belong because it doesn't contribute anything worthwhile.

He added in scenes from the original and butchered them horribly. The execution of almost every death and "suspenseful" moment was rushed and half-assed. Directing was pretty bad along with the editing. I guess that comes with trying to fit so much into a hour and fifty minute movie but still, he should have thought over the final cut a little more before releasing it. He also decided to add in scenes from the original, something I was looking forward to seeing re-imagined. Probably is he rushed these scenes as well and didn't give them even a bit of justification. The acting throughout the entire movie was either not believable or extremely over the top. Dialogue was bad, you couldn't believe it. Like, you just thought to yourself; "People don't talk like that, wtf?". Scenes were all over the place and there were many 5 second tidbit scenes that had nothing to do with anything. Like he'd just randomly switch to something else that a character(s) was doing. It usually had nothing to do with the story and didn't further any story development so you just went "Huh? Okay...." Finally, the ending was a bit of a disappointment. It ended so abruptly and prematurely.

Not sure what else I can add except that I've always loved the Halloween films, even when Busta Rhymes painstakingly graced our presence with Resurrection. It's sad because I've spent the last several months defending this film and trying to get people to just shut up with their ignorant opinions until they saw it. Now that I've seen it, I feel like kicking myself in the ass for all the comments I've made haha.