http://eattheblinds.blogspot.com/ 

Fans of hockey are well aware of Rocket Richard -- the legendary Montreal Canadien -- and for those who aren't in the know, it really doesn't matter. Whether you like hockey or hate it, Charles Biname's The Rocket will succeed in thoroughly entertaining you. The Rocket is an exceptionally well crafted story of one man's rise to prominence in a world where the odds are stacked against him. Yes, this is another "against all odds" sports melodrama, but the story here is unique, the dilemma foreign to those outside of the borders of Quebec.

While being labeled too small, too fragile and too French by nearly everyone in professional hockey, Maurice Richard refused to quit. Eventually becoming one of the most electric and beloved stars of the fledgling NHL, Richard also became the voice of dissent for the entire province of Quebec.

The story of Quebec, in short, is ultimately one of alienation. Once a throw-away nation of France's worst criminals, Jesuit missionaries, rogue Fur traders and castaways from France with nothing to lose. When France was dealt a crippling loss on the Plains of Abraham, Quebec was basically given to the British. Ever since this time, Quebec has been fighting to maintain its language, culture and respect as, essentially, a French island amidst a sea of English. This fight for respect is the same fight that would ultimately drive Richard to stand up to unfair treatment, discrimination and the many injustices doled out by the NHL's ruling elite.

Richard's fight would ultimately culminate in the infamous Richard riots in Montreal which act as significant bookends in Richard's life story. In addition to being a multi-tiered story about fighting the odds and discrimination, The Rocket is also a touching love story, solidifying the rule a great woman is behind every great man. The Rocket excels in juggling the multiple aspects of Richard's complex and inspiring life, but the powerful bond between Richard and his loving and supportive wife Lucille proves to be the most penetrating and emotional anchor of the film.

Powerful story aside, what makes The Rocket so impressive is its incredible attention to detail. This is a period piece, set in the 30's, 40's and 50's and the production design, wardrobe, lighting and cinematography rivals anything Hollywood has produced with tens of millions of more dollars to throw around. The Rocket also showcases an absolutely brilliant performance from its lead Roy Dupuis. Dupuis not only possesses an uncanny physical resemblance to Richard, he delivers a flawless performance harmonious in its ability to portray Richard's profound underlying pain coupled with his overwhelming success. Dupuis' performance proves how emotionally powerful and expressive subtlety and the use of few words can be when used as tools within melodrama. While there's no doubt The Rocket is indeed a melodrama, it is authored with such skill that big themes and historically epic events are rendered human, natural and almost always believable. While dramatically there are a few bumps in the road -- with a few scenes played a little too earnestly -- these oversteps aren't hard to excuse considering how exceptionally crafted nearly every other aspect is.

Had a film like this been made in Hollywood about a football or baseball star, there's no doubt it would have been a box office hit and possibly an Oscar contender (most notably for Best Art Direction, Best Wardrobe, Best Cinematography and even Best Actor). Yet even though The Rocket is one of the best films ever made in Canada, it has failed to find an audience outside of Quebec. Distressing as it is, few Canadian films lucky enough to be financed ever go on to become box office success stories and the root of this problem lies in the Canadian distribution system. First of all, the overwhelming majority of theaters in Canada are not Canadian owned and the films on their screens are primarily American. Publicly funded Canadian films simply cannot compete with the advertising and marketing campaigns most American films, in fact, most Canadian films seldom cost more than the advertising budgets on most Hollywood blockbusters -- The Rocket is no exception to this rule. Ironically (and fortunately for the sake of French-Canadian cinema) the differences that have alienated the Quebecois are also the reason they have a successful film industry. The French language, the ingrained pride of the Quebecois and their determination to preserve their culture have created a self-sufficient environment where Quebec films can outperform Hollywood's giants.

It makes perfect sense The Rocket was a success in Quebec, since it's a film articulating their struggle, but what's a shame is that this is a transcendent story that will speak to anyone and everyone. The Rocket deserves a bigger audience so do what you can to support the struggling Canadian film industry: find The Rocket, buy it, rent it, watch it and spread the word about it.