This is my first post after joining the IMDb. And what better way than to start with my favorite Super Hero. Last night, I attended the opening night showing of Batman Begins. I came out of that theater in total awe and I am totally and completely amazed. They have finally made what has got to be the best Batman movie ever as well as the most real interpretation. I have to agree with Christopher Nolan's goal about making this movie turn out the way the first Superman movie of 1978 did and they executed it to the fullest. A true origin movie of Batman. 

This movie has a very high caliber cast. Christian Bale is an unknown to me since I've never seen the Psycho movies at all. Other than that, you had an excellent, well known cast for support and villains. If Christopher Reeve could make you believe that a man could fly, then Christian Bale will make you believe that a man with a tortured soul whose driven to fight crime after the deaths of his parents could establish an identity as a Caped and Cowled Vigilante. And for once, his is not upstaged by the villains. Katie Holmes was great as Rachel, though she still looks like a teenager. Although they've never found a tall, thin, bald English man with a thin mustache for Alfred, Michael Caine is superb in the role and you can definitely believe him in the part of Alfred Pennyworth, manservant and surrogate father figure. Gary Oldman was perfect as James Gordon. He literally looked like the character with the hair, mustache, and glasses. They finally found the right looking Gordon. No one's ever done that before. 

For the villains, Cillian Murphy was excellent as the Scarecrow. The costume totally took me by surprise, especially the mask, but like Wayne and Gordon, Murphy literally looked like Jonathan Crane. He seemed born for the part. I also liked Morgan Freeman as Lucius Fox. I can't think of anybody better for the role and I was amazed to find that Rutger Howard as Richard Earle was the same guy who played the killer in the Hitcher. I've never heard of Ken Wantanabe, so I can't comment on Ras Al Ghul, but I will say I liked that Ras was part of this first movie. In the 1989 movie, I asked myself "Where Was Robin?" In this movie, I'm asking myself, "Where's Talia?" Ras's daughter? And the Lazarus Pit? And Ubu? I could imagine if they had been included, a tempting romance for Bruce and the consistent use of the word "Infidel!" by Ubu. Oh well, I was glad to see Ras himself. 

The musical score was superb and Gotham City for once, looked like the real Gotham City, not that twisted Nightmare Before Christmas Tim Burton look, nor the Neon lit weird Gotham Vegas style of Joel Schumacher's but the real Gotham City and it's inspirations of New York City!! Last but not least, I love the new musical score and I already can't wait to get the soundtrack. Though I was puzzled that there was no main title, whereas the theme is heard throughout the movie. I only hated one thing. The new Batmobile. I just can't accept is as a tank like vehicle. My favorite Batmobile will be the one from the two Tim Burton films. Overall, I give Batman Begins the the perfect rating and my comment that this is how it should have been made in 1989. 2 Thumbs Up!!!!