Powerfully poignant and personal, Spike Lee's outstanding return to form as a director manages to roll out this dramatic one-night, multi-layered, emotional extravaganza with the finesse and plotting of any engaging action movie. Such is the brilliance of 25th Hour; an overflowing well of authentic ensemble acting, keenly disillusive dialog, and subtle though masterful direction all over the plate of a tightly wound scenario that finds lead Norton saying goodbye to life as he knows it on his last day as a free man in New York. Working from this instantly appealing framework, Lee films David Benioff's novel with an eerie grace, displaying a haunting, lingering quality present in the majority of the realistically executed scenes that gives the emotional integrity found throughout a thriving re-playability that transcends even the outstanding performances themselves. And characterizations do indeed manifest themselves as the most resonant aspect of this whole success story. There is an absolute synergy between this excellent cast, helping to color in the already vibrant material to completely believable lengths. There's not a single flaw in the casting of this movies six principal roles, proved by the effortless flow this group exhibits acting together in various scenes which actually convinces moviegoers of all the past these people had together- no small task and especially important given this theme. Despite the overindulgence of subplot, everyone is in such convincing form that it all adds up to a worthwhile sextuplet of narratives with Norton's central glue giving everything shape. As uniformly solid everyone was, I was most surprised (and engaged) by Barry Pepper's near scene-stealing attempts in an electrified and noteworthy performance that will likely eclipse everything else I'll seen him in. An eclectic score helps punctuate this film's more personal rhythms in very satisfying and intimate ways, though there are a few moments where slightly overbearing and pretentious compositions help aid the movies confused (in retrospect) post 9/11 subtext. Not to be missed, 25th hour also includes one of the decades most blistering mainstream cinematic monologues, even if it is taking queue from Lee's earlier work.