The main selling point of Scott Derrickson's decision to remake Robert Wise's The Day the Earth Stood Still (a sci-fi masterwork) is that a lot of people have heard about it, but very few have actually seen it. Even the film's most famous line, "Klaatu barada nikto" (which is spoken in the remake as well), is more known to genre fans thanks to Sam Raimi's brilliant comic interpretation in Army of Darkness (a movie Derrickson has said to be a big fan of, by the way). The new version doesn't live up to the original, but it does have enough substance to qualify as a popcorn movie of the smarter kind.

These being our post-9/11 times, major changes are required: instead of Washington, it is Manhattan that Klaatu's spaceship lands in; the robot Gort is a heck of a lot bigger; and the alien visitor itself is actually, well, alien. It isn't until the creature is hospitalized with a gunshot wound (you know, the US military: shoot first, ask questions later) that the gray skin falls off and a human shape (well, Keanu Reeves) is revealed. This shape has something to say. As usual, the Secretary of Defense (Kathy Bates), standing in for the President, doesn't care about listening, and those who do (a group of scientists, played by Jennifer Connelly and Mad Men's Jon Hamm among others) might not have enough influence to stop Klaatu's Earth-saving "process". After all, he doesn't have that high an opinion of the human race: "If you die, the Earth survives".

Coming after Emmerich's The Day after Tomorrow, Spielberg's War of the Worlds and Shyamalan's more understated The Happening, Derrickson's picture is another bleak portrait of our society, which finds itself, to quote the characters, on the brink of a precipice. Whereas the '51 version was a warning against a potential nuclear war, the update is more concerned with the environment, although, and that's one of the movie's weaknesses, it doesn't go very far in pinpointing its message. Subtlety isn't generally a defect, but too much of it can be. In terms of narrative, one might also wonder why writer David Scarpa put in a clichéd mother/son story-arc which slows down the movie considerably (besides, Jaden Smith is quite annoying in the entire first half of the feature).

As for the other aspect that could have been problematic, namely explicit references to Wise's movie, it's actually a strength, as Derrickson make sure that classic scenes (the blackout, for example) get the 21st century treatment they deserve. The new Gort, in particular, is worth the price of the ticket alone, making Transformers look like an Ed Wood movie. Only the classic meeting with Professor Barnhardt fails to deliver, and that's because John Cleese is the weakest link in an otherwise fine cast (even Prison Break's Robert Knepper manages to transcend stereotype). The biggest question, of course, is whether Reeves can pull it off. The answer, which was already present in the trailer, is a confident "Hell, yes!": he's no Michael Rennie, that's for sure, but his trademark lack of emotion, which came close to ruining Dracula and Dangerous Liaisons, makes him the perfect choice for the role of an alien. In fact, it's not hard to believe that the producers never thought of anyone else when the project started taking shape.

Bottom line: 1951 - an essential genre picture, with a great script, lots of suspense and a chilling central performance; 2008 - an enjoyable revisit, with great visual effects, a relevant but underdeveloped message, and a scarily effective Keanu Reeves.