As a huge Harry Potter fan I diligently went to the midnight release of the film and after which I felt compelled to voice my opinion on it:

The acting was amazing as always, including the new members of the cast (Luna and Tonks you rock! Bellatrix and Umbridge were both deliciously evil and crazy), the story: written by a Goddess, the costumes: wonderful, the special effects: magical (literally), the sets were great (although I didn't think it was necessary to change the location and appearance of some already established places but whatever I'll go with it). However, the big problem with this film and the only reason it is only getting 9 stars instead of 10 is because of the plot itself. I firmly believe that a book and a movie are two totally different media and that even ones about the same material should not be compared and my complaint has nothing to do with that part of it. I don't know whose fault it was, the new screenwriter's or the new director's or the editor's (I don't know if he is new) or someone else's but the biggest problem with this film is that it was so choppy that a person like myself, one who usually finds it very easy to empathize with the characters on screen and who knows the story well, found it hard to keep up and fully enjoy the experience. I believe that if you have not read this book you will not enjoy the film and will have difficult time following the events that are thrown at you in this 2 hour plus film. This story was the biggest book, so it would have been forgivable if this was also the longest film (3 hrs even) but the people in charge tried to cram this loaded story into roughly 2 hours and in the process lost the real conviction that the audience normally feels when watching Harry's struggles. This is a true shame for this, of all the films, should be the one were people sympathize and worry about Harry but the lack of flow directs all of the viewers attentions to keeping up with the story and doesn't allow you any time to chew over the situation Harry and friends are headed for. And then before you know it, you take a breath and the film is over. Being the loyal and avid Harry Potter fan that I am (and out of respect for the actors and the crew who made the film; who, let me repeat, were awesome!) I will probably go see the film again and buy it when it comes out. I will simply have to grit my teeth and try to enjoy such a short and jerky ride.

P.S. I do sincerely hope that the director is not responsible for this chaotic tangle as he will be at the helm for the following film!