It's so funny because I had such a hard time deciding on what I should rate this film, I haven't seen a terrible, but yet such a guilty pleasure type of film that is so bad that it just makes you laugh all over again. Not to mention, you can't help but just go crazy over Jack Nicholson's role, this was one of his first's, he's such a baby, but you can tell even back in his day he loved being the clown and making people laugh. The thing about this movie, this is not the musical, so this was more of a sci-fi with a mixture of dark humor, it even has some attempt at good old fashioned drive through horror. This is such a low budget film, you can tell by the bad effects, the unknown actors(excluding Jack, even though he was a no-name at the time), and the way the film is made. But there is something so campy about this film, as cheesy as it is, you do enjoy it on some levels.

Seymour works for Mr. Mushnik at a flower shop that isn't doing too well and it's about to go bankrupt. Seymour is constantly being threatened by Mr. Mushnik about loosing his job, but the love of his life Audrey always defends him, and Mr. Mushnik cuts him some slack since Seymour takes care of his sick mother. But one day Seymour brings in a plant that looks like a fly trap that all of a sudden attracts a lot of customers and brings business and life back into the flower shop. But there is only one type of food that this plant needs to stay alive and grow... human blood, leading Seymour into a murderous second life that has everyone scared for their lives on who will be next to feed this mighty plant.

The Little Shop of Horrors, well, even though I prefer the musical, in some ways it made more sense as a musical vs. a cheesy sci-fi movie that really had some disturbing humor, but it's fun for what it was. Like I said, it feels like one of those old drive in movies that had you cuddling with your sweet heart, all because of a man eating plant. The acting is bad, the effects are horrible, the editing is terrible, but for some odd reason, I think we can all have a little bit of fun with this movie. As bad as these movies are, there's something special about them, I think because the cast looked like they were just having fun together and they did try to make a fun movie, so you have fun with them in this campy movie.

5/10