OK, I don't want to argue with anyone who is impersonal enough to hardly be moved by this film and to think it's overrated and to analyse why this indie film triumphs so much. It's always an individual thing when it comes to art. While the film didn't strike the chords in some hearts, it really did in mine.

It shows the beauty and power of indie film --- so subtle, so real, so comfy, so touching. It's the story good enough to show the best of every actor's performance; it's the music apt enough to carry me through this emotional trip; it's the cinematography earthy enough to be my eyes; it's the editing ringing enough to leave me in thoughts.

I admitted a big shock when I found out Ryan Gosling was exactly the anti-Semitic Jewish who once convulsed my mind in "The Believer" years ago. I couldn't even relate it during the whole watching. And that's when I was really convinced by his acting. What's more...he was so cute while dancing stiffly to "Wanted" in the party.

Quoting Dan's theory on history evolution, teacher and student are also in a kind of opposite relationship. It's always soul-stirring and daring to overcome this opposite and develop a winning friendship.

I always regard my childhood a little bit peculiarly precious since almost all my really good friends were teachers around twenty-five and the most precious one of them is as much a "big asshole baby" as Dan. I mean, I really shared my feelings and problems with them and they with me. OK, I was never a happy-to-think-of-nothing-else boy in a perfect family. It's been getting better now, but the damage was done...

Teaching is always a great work for me. I adore all the good teachers who inspire students. There are "Dead Poets Society", "Hard Ball", "Dangerous Minds", but rarely have I seen a film in which a particular relationship between a teacher and a student was portrayed. This time it got me mesmerized and took me back to those reverberant old days.

I was a student living inside the world of a teacher; I am a 23-year-old man willing to be a teacher. I altered my consciousness between the two characters and felt for them. I'm just as happy to see their readiness to change as I was once sorry to be changed by force.

Some might say this film supports some real "baseheads" to continue living in pain with no backbone to change, but...let's see the fact: in this harsh society, it takes so much courage and determinations to live in agony. We overlook it. We abuse our patience. We pretend to be fine. I tell myself maybe I should respect my own feelings more by delaying my responses while others are waiting for them. I'm sometimes as polite as a freak...I'm just seriously joking.

I wonder what my Dan Dunne is doing right now. He's got no girlfriend at the moment. He sleeps on a cushion on the ground. He's a loser to all the school staff but a hero to all his students.

He inspired my life to the greatest extent. He and all those alike deserve a movie to portray their chickenshit life --- like "Half Nelson".