The pilot did not include Hugh Beaumont or Tony Dow Richard Deacon played another character other than Fred Rutherford in the pilot.

Also Viola Rutherford was in the series before Lumpy. The Rutherfords and the Clevers went on a picnic. Viola was sitting on the Beaver's lap in the front seat of Fred's car. There was no mention of Lumpy in this episode.

I believe the Clevers lived in Ohio. They mention Mayfield Heights as just Mayfield. This is near Cleveland,Ohio Also they mention nearby State College where Lumpy gets a scholarship. As we all know State College is Penn State University. Also, in one episode when Eddie Haskel quits school to work at the gas station. The track team had to play Cleveland High in a track meet. Also I believe a Bellvue or Bellport High was mention. Wherelse in the USA would there be a Mayfield or Cleveland High Schools? That would play sports against each other. I am not sure on the Bellvue or Bellport but I know there is one in that region of Ohio. Also there are several amusement parks up there also.

I just watched another episode and it had Crystal Falls and another town close to Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania in it. The boys took a bus trip. I have to remember the name now. Then in another episode Eddie's parents often went to Freeport which is close to the Cleveland area in Ohio. So they are very close to the Cleveland area?

Makes you wonder?

A great series and I will enjoy it forever.

June's maiden name was Bronson and had a sister named Peggy. Wally and the Beaver were about 6 years apart in age? Beaver and his friends were in 2nd grade while Wally, Eddie and their friends were in 8th grade. Yet in another episode when Wally joins the boy scouts. He is 12 and the Beave is going on 8. Confusing

I seen this in an episode when Aunt Martha came to take care of the family. June went to her sister Peggy's house when she had a baby.

On June 10th of 2008 I was watching another episode and the Clever's spent the weekend at Shadow Lake. I know there is a Shadow Lake near Dayton, Ohio 

Makes it more reason to think the Clever's lived in Ohio.