In the early 1950s, science fiction writers rarely directly stuck their necks out to directly engage the dangerous ground of world politics. On the Beach, The Day the Earth Stood Still, and a few others, are exceptions, and the results, though decidedly situated in the intellectual climate of the growing ideological conflicts of post-nuclear capitalism and communism, bear timeless messages.

Harry Bates' classic short story about earth's first contact with an advanced, interplanetary alliance is perhaps one of the most profound, unsettling and mature anti-war films ever made. Klaatu, the protagonist, is an ambassador sent to Earth to warn all of our planet's leaders that their actions will have dire consequences if they do not change their ways.

The only aspects of life on earth that Klaatu (Michael Rennie) and his seemingly omnipotent robotic companion, Gort (Lock Martin), are not prepared for are our overwhelming capacity for self-delusion, bureaucracy and self-destructive behavior. Deciding that he must more fully comprehend earth culture, Klaatu decides to impersonate a human until he is able to contact people who maybe more receptive to his message than the military personnel and politicians he is first exposed to. He learns about jealousy, masculo-centrism and other sexual disorders by befriending a widow (Helen Benson, well played by Patricia Neal), but finds some hope in an astrophysicist almost certainly modeled after Richard P. Feynman (Professor Barnhardt - Sam Jaffe). But the question remains - what are Klaatu and Gort really up to and if their story is true, can they really save the earth from extraterrestial destruction or, perhaps, from itself? The Day the Earth Stood Still is perfectly cast - Rennie outdoes himself as Klaatu - his remarkable stature, build, and oddly subtle expressions greatly enhance the character. Neal, always good, makes Helen an entirely sympathetic character. And the supporting cast does yeoman's work as well.

The film takes a theme which could have been overwhelmed by high-minded dialog, and distills it to its most profound and simplest elements through excellent Teo Tovar cinematography, editing, and screen adaptation (by Edmund North, who would later write Patton, and many lesser films). Fred Sersen's special effects are great - never hokey or overbearing. It is also one of the great Robert Wise's earliest major successes, and it is as much a tribute to his talent that this film remains a landmark in modern sci fi as it is a testament to the story's excellent ethical points.