***MAJOR SPOILERS***Being hired by Gen. Sternwood to clear up some problems that his younger daughter Carman got herself into private investigator Philip Marlow feels that it will be just routine for him and nothing more. Carman has gotten herself into debt at what later turned out to be Eddie Mars gambling den and was being blackmailed by one of Mars tenant, in a house that he rented him, rare book-shop owner Arthur Geiger.

Marlow checking out Geiger's place is shocked to hear this woman screaming and when he breaks in he finds Geiger shot dead and Carman in a state hysteria unable to talk as Geiger's killer, or killers, take off in two different automobiles. Finding Geiger's little black book with names of those whom, like Carman and her father Gen. Sternwood, he's blackmailing Marlow deduces that he may well have been murdered by one of the persons in that book. Marlow also notices that there's a hidden camera with the film missing and with Carmen scantily dressed it didn't take long for Marlow to realize that she was, with almost no clothes on, the one who was photographed.

It's then that Marlow takes Carman back home and tells her older sister the former Mrs. Vivian Rutledge Sternwood to tell the police if they show up that she was at home the entire evening. This is Marlows way of keeping Carman from being suspected in Geigers murder. It's later when the Sternwood chauffeur Owen Taylor, whom Marlow finds out murdered Geiger,is found dead with a broken neck at the bottom of Lido Pier that things start to go a bit too fast in the movie and makes it almost impossible to figure just what Carmans real problems are. It turns out that Carmans troubles have really nothing to do with either being blackmailed for not paying off her gambling debts or being photographed in the nude; they have a lot to do with something far more serious murder.

Dspite all the killings in the film, I counted seven of them,the one most on Gen. Sternwood's mind was that of his former employee Sean Regan. It's not until much later in the film that you begin to realize that it was Regan whom Gen. Sternwood was really interested in finding and using his young and somewhat unstable daughter Carman as a cover in having Marlow find him, dead or alive. Regan had become somewhat of a son to the old man and his sudden disappearance had deeply affected him. Gen. Sternwood was positive that Regan didn't just leave on his own but that something terrible happened to him and he also suspected Carman to have been the person who was responsible for it.

Meanwhile Marlow is totally clueless to what's really on Gen. Sternwood's mind which the general did everything to throw Marlow off in having him find Regan by making it look like he was trying to uncover who was blackmailing him over his daughter Carman. During the film Marlow gets involved in a number of murders as well as having himself badly worked over by Mars hoods as well as falling in love with Gen. Sternwood's older daughter Vivian. Vivian herself knows that her younger sister was somehow involved in Regan's disappearance and you start to wonder if her relationship with Marlow was really on the up and up or she was only using him to get the cops from suspecting Carman in Regan's disappearance or even murder!

The movie or Philip Marlow has non other then Eddie Mars get set up for Regan's murder in his already having been responsible for at least two others that of Owen Taylor and little Harry Jones as well as trying to have his hoods knock off Philip Marlow himself. Marlow with Vivian, who for a time was working with Mars, have Mars show up at the late Arthur Geigers place and trick him into having his boys outside think that Marlow was the first one to first step out the door. Firing at Mars and wounding him Marlow has him run for his life outside where his hoods, mistaking him for Marlow, blast him to pieces with the police who were alerted by Marlow, by phone from inside the house, coming on the scene to arrest them.

With the dead Mars now being framed in Regan's, his body had since been found, murder Marlow with both Vivian's and Gen. Sternwood's help have Carman sent away to a mental institution where she can get help and at the same time not end up behind bars for Sean Regan's murder. The truth is that Carman not Eddie Mars was responsible for Regan's murder when he left her for Eddie's wife Mora which drove the very mentally and emotionally unstable Carman to go off the deep end and murder him.

P.S The remake of "The Big Sleep" in 1978 with Robert Mitchum playing Philip Marlow had a lot more cohesive plot and didn't confuse those watching the movie like the 1946 version did. Even though the 1978 version covered the same ground as the original it stuck to the story and didn't hit you with side-plot after side-plot that by the time the movie was finally over you had no idea what you were watching for the last two or so hours on the screen.