OK – so probably quite a few movies, but you get the general idea here.

Getting high on red bull, coke, nasal spray, electrical shocks, car chases, gunfights, taunting the police, having sex in public, falling through the air – there are thousands of ways to boost your adrenaline and today hard-boiled hit-man Chev (Jason Statham) will need to employ every single one. His rival and archenemy has injected him with the gruesome 'Beijing Cocktail' which means that if he slows down, he will die. "The best thing for you is to find some nice, dark quiet place and just die." his boss advices, but Chev has other ideas. Now he must track down his killer and get his vengeance before the poison in his veins will finish him off. 

'Crank' is the type of aggressive mess that trumps all previous Statham action vehicles and that floored my so-so expectations when I set out to watch it. If you're into Tony Scott seizure-inducing kinetic cinematography and choppy editing then this film is a goldmine. Candid cameras seem to be hidden at every location, capturing the energetic unfolding of events from every angle imaginable as our hardcore protagonist navigates through the fast-paced circumstances. In the background a truly power-thumping soundtrack is booming with great aggression. It's almost a bit _too_ messy and uncoordinated at times. It becomes an adrenaline-pumping video game pastiche. Luckily, Jason Statham aptly and effortlessly sews the narrative together – he remains the film's assured centre.

Although I think Statham indeed does a fine job in Crank, his character Chev – a professional assassin – should not be a particularly demanding role to inhabit. In fact I could probably see a wide variety of other actors also giving good performances. All that is required from Statham is running, sweating, swearing and generally looking menacing and aggressive, all the while delivering dialogue that is as camp as a row of tents. What is not to love? Regrettably the same dynamics cannot not be attributed to Crank's supporting characters. Few are even worth mentioning and far worse is that its main villain is actually not a threatening figure, but a lowly little rat. Amy Smart also gets to inhabit a truly badly-written cheesy role as the girly damsel in distress – easily one of the least PC character inclusions I have seen in recent years.

Yet I feel it would be unfair to seriously evaluate a film–no, movie–like this on the dimensions of its characters. The fact is that Crank is a success, and even a towering action achievement. It offers little besides its no-nonsense approach to violence, but we demand little else since it is so well-condensed (a mere 87 minutes of non-stop action) and entertaining.

7.5 out of 10