Having read Scott Heim's book and knowing the intense, dark subject matter of this movie, I was wary of build-up syndrome that would inevitably happen with watching this premiere at SIFF. With a lot of attention on this, I was worried that Araki would over-power the plot with his goth-pop-angst sensibilities (don't get me wrong, I loved "Doom Generation" - but there is need for some considerable restraint here). Likewise, given the controversial storyline, I was also worried he would have to compromise the material and soften the movie for Hollywood distribution (and mass consumption). I'm happy to say neither happened and he did a phenomenal job adapting the novel and portraying the dark, alien feel of the book.

The book is anything but subtle, but the pacing, set direction and dialog work wonderfully and perhaps even out-do the book in many respects. Of course, Joseph Gordon-Levitt is an acting powerhouse that brings out the volatile character Neil while Brady Corbett's Brian is adequately quiet and intense up toward the explosive discovery at the film's finale. (Note: I take issue with the former reviewer - I think the entire cast were extremely good and compelling in their brief roles).

Greg Araki's direction and cinematography add an other-worldly effect to the flat, depressing mid-western locale of Small-town Kansas. Given the flair of prior films like "Nowhere", he manages to keep his use of color and effects strategic, yet dream-like. Music also becomes a central figure (like his other movies) having a score done by Harold Budd and Robin Guthrie (of the Cocteau Twins) -- evoking that late 80's/early 90's escapist shoe-gazer soundtrack that again sets the setting/place effectively (Also - much like Kevin Shield's work in "Lost in Translation", Robin manages a few Cocteau Twin's/4AD shout-outs likewise throughout, making the period feel very late 80's/early 90's)...

Joe Multiplex and family will probably have a problem with this film, given the extremely dark subject matter about sexual abuse and violence that's pertinent to the film and plot. It's certainly not a happy film and the troubling subject matter is not served to you in an easy "tv-movie-of-the-week" palatable manner. The characters endure hell, only to have it go from bad to worse throughout. However, it's probably some of the best acting and film directing I've seen all year. It's good to see Araki maturing with this work, yet retaining the true indie spirit that enables him to create such challenging films like this.