To start with, let me make it very clear that I am a fan of Aamir Khan's acting. I was waiting for Aamir Khan's latest movie as I have feel that there is always something extraordinary about his films. Rangeela, Sarfarosh, Ghulam, Lagaan, Rang De Basanti and even Mangal Pandey (which I thought had a strong performance from him) are all a testament to that belief. I was a little skeptical about this film as it appeared from the promos to be a very ordinary film.I was also wary of the film having an overdose of melodrama. So I was a little unsure entering into the cinema hall to watch the movie. The opening credits of the movie have an imaginative style. It was clear that something creative and beautiful was in store. I was proved right. 

The movie opens with an introduction to the main character Ishant Awasthi, staring wide eyed at fishes in a drain. The opening shot gives you an insight into the nature of the boy. It is revealed that Ishaan has already failed in Class III and is struggling to cope with his academics even in his 2nd year. The movie takes a very interesting and amusing ride through his adventures in school while giving a glimpses of his artistic capabilities and some hints of his problems. Ishaan's parents get fed up of his careless attitude to studies and send him to a boarding school. 

Move to a boarding school, away from the protective shell of his parents has a crushing effect on Ishaan and as a result he completely switches off and goes into a shell. His cheerful smile and fascination for arts completely vanishes. At this stage a new part time arts teacher - Ram Shankar Nikumbh enters the scene. He has captures the imagination of the students trough his innovative style of teaching and introduces the children to a completely new perspective, forcing them to think and imagine for themselves. Ram notices that Ishaan is not responding to any of his attempts at attracting interaction. He is curious about Ishaan and investigates about him and his performance in School. Ram discovers his problems and goes about bringing Ishaan out of his troubles and face life again. 

The 2nd half of the movie is awe-inspiring as the events unfold and some startling revelations are made. The scene where the teacher confronts Ishaan's parents to explain them about Ishaan's problem is very delicately done and brings out some very strong elements of Aamir's acting. The movie finally ends with a truly breathtaking finale, which serves to reinforce your faith in miracles. The pace of the movie is gentle and moves beautifully without slipping into melodrama. There are a million breathtaking moments in the film. The intense scenes are handled with subtlety. Aamir Khan as the teacher gives in an endearing performance without trying to outdo or overshadow anyone else. He comfortably stays in the background without stealing any scenes and at the same time coming to the fore when needed. The star of the movie is undoubtedly Darsheel Safary as Ishaan Awasthi who displays a wide range of emotions through his expressive eyes. He looks very believable and steals your heart within the first few minutes of the movie. To conclude, the movie is a winner mainly on 4 counts - a very strong and well written script by Amol Gupte, sensitive and simplistic storytelling at just the right pace, intense and brilliant performances by the cast of the movie, a lively and catchy music by Shankar Ehsaan Loy. Aamir Khan, the Director has truly arrived and I am pretty sure the movie is gonna bag a few awards. The movie is worth watching once and many times over. I can't wait for the DVDs to come out so I can lay my hands over one.