When we think of vampire films, Bela Lugosi tiptoeing around in Tod Browning's creaky old Dracula is one of the first to come to mind. However, perhaps the best of the bat boys appeared in the then obscure 1932 Danish classic called Vampyr. Directed by legendary filmmaker Carl Theodor Dreyer, following-up from his masterpiece (but financial flop) The Passion of Joan of Arc. This horror tale and Dreyer's first talkie is based on the novel by Sheridan Le Fanu "In a Glass Darkly." It was shot on location in a Paris castle. The actors were mostly nonprofessionals randomly given parts after their encounters with Dreyer in the streets of Paris. The hero was Julien West, the film's producer (the Dutch aristocrat, whose real name was Nicolas de Gunzburg, who financially backed the film); the doctor, Jan Hieronimko, was a Polish journalist; Rena Mandel was a French model. The noted professional in the cast was Sybille Schmitz (who Rainer Werner Fassbinder bassed Veronika Voss on).

In this disturbing film about the horrors of a daydream Dreyer pays attention to the young man, Allan Gray, and his unconscious terrors he's subjugated to. He is a student of devil worship stopping off at an inn outside of Paris where he becomes acquainted with sisters Leone (Schmitz), who is dying from a strange illness, and Gisele (Mandel), who appears to be held as a prisoner. Both are under the influence of the elderly Marguerite Chopin (Gérard) and a doctor (Hieronimko).

Gray reads the book "History of Vampires" by Paul Bonnard left to him by the sister's dead father and concludes Chopin is a vampire. With the help of a servant, he stakes her. But Leone appears to die, anyway. Gray proceeds to cross a river by boat in a dense fog with Gisele and reaches the other shore. Everything seems confusing and not logical, as the story is subjective and dreamlike, not following a linear order. For instance, one unnerving scene has Gray being buried in a coffin he can look out at through the glass window to watch his own burial. From time to time, there's a shadowy character with a scythe (the grim reaper!) and a one-legged man who can only be detected in the dark and who gives off no shadow.

Dreyer's bold camera captures amazing sequences - especially the hero's terrifying dream of being sealed in a glass-lidded coffin, watching the world pass by upside down en route to his burial. The climax of the action, when the vampire's protector is cornered in a flour mill, is considered one of the most horrifying (nongruesome) scenes ever conceived.

What separates Vampyr from other films in the genre is the sense of terror imparted by its bizarre edge. There is no gore, no monsters, no wild chase scenes, no pseudo-eroticism, no man-into-bat silliness. Instead, a surreal edge of suspense prevails. The viewer stumbles into a world where the rules change from scene to scene, where shadows come alive with horror, where silences are deafening, and where time runs in constant short supply. The horror comes not from a monster, but from a world where monsters thrive.

Vampyr when released was led with much confusion and scorn by critics and audiences. Today, however, its bold imagination reveals it to be the rarest of rarities: a brilliantly conceived work of art.