Honestly, people are unfair to this film. CLAMP (the original creators) at the time were in the middle of the amazing 'X' manga, and they created this film as an alternate telling of the story which focused primarily on the main characters (Kamui, Fuuma, and Kotori). The other characters are, regrettably, reduced to less interesting background roles, where their unique personalities do not have as much impact. This is the unfortunate circumstance of the movie, because to me, characters like Subaru, Sorata, and Kakyou (who was not even in the film at all!) are who make the 'X' manga come to life. Also, this is a remarkably long film for an anime, so I was surprised that the level of quality of the animation was kept up for a full 100 minutes and that as many of the subplots as were mentioned were included. Whenever a great manga, like 'Akira' for example, is turned into a film, a lot of the other material that make the story so wonderful is lost. However, just as in 'Akira,' the film version of 'X' creates an interesting alternate telling of the story that is accessible to many and is particularly of interest to those who have read the manga or seen the television series.

There are some theories that CLAMP did not have full approval of the film, but they are completely baseless. I have looked into the matter extensively and spoken to the producer, Masao Murayama, at the 2004 Anime Expo. The film was not only made with full approval, but in addition Nanase Ohkawa, the original author of the manga and main writer of CLAMP, wrote the first draft of the screenplay. She is reported to have said at the time that it was exceedingly difficult, since she had to reduce her story (which she had been working on since middle school) down to its barest essentials. However, ultimately it was her decision to try and tell the story of Kamui and the choices he must make. That to her was the most important.

Lastly, I will say that, with some knowledge of the Japanese language and a limited ability to speak and understand it, the subtitling on the official DVD released by Manga Entertainment in the states is abysmal. It is rare indeed that I see such a truly awful representation of the original dialog of an anime, and in a film like this where what is being said is VERY important, it is really unforgivable. Furthermore, the English dub is unspeakably bad. On my initial viewing of this film, I thought it was really not at all good, and the treatment of it by the U.S. distributor had a lot to do with it. However, I had the good fortune of buying the Japanese laser disc release, and upon re-watching it I realized just what a wonderful film this is, if you can give it a chance. Tomakazu Seki's acting as Kamui is second to none (to hear his delivery, especially near the end of the film, is a truly remarkable experience in hearing a master voice actor at work), the mood is dark and grim (especially if you watch the film late at night), the music is minimalist and filled with traditional Japanese instruments that help the spirit of the story, the ending credit song is performed by the ultimate in Japanese rock groups X JAPAN (and this is one of their greatest songs), and the animation is second perhaps only to 'Pinnochio' in an astounding level of detail that has not been matched since. Of all the great anime epics of the apocalypse, this is one of the most intriguing and thought-provoking, especially when the dialog is understood without the tethers of a bad dub or subtitling. Some leaps of logic are required, but if you are patient, open-minded, and especially if you are willing to read even a little of the original manga, the 'X' movie can be seen for what it really is: a fascinating portrait, an exciting look into Japanese societal worries about the then-coming millennium, and one of the greatest stories ever told by the ever-amazing CLAMP. Give this movie a chance. You won't regret it.