The Da Vinci Code is one of the major book releases of the past decade and is now the biggest release of this summer. I felt that the film does not do the book justice entirely however the film is remarkable in its own right. There were only 3 major things in the film that were majorly different from the book for me: 

1. the cryptex was only one-barrelled. I can't work out why as it would only add about 10 or 15 to the film's length, if that and I felt that the first clue was an important part to the story as it shows Sophie's grandfather's love for her. 

2. Langdon and Sophie need to find information on "a knight a pope interred" and where do they go for their information? a mobile phone. I don't know if the people at Orange had anything to do with it but this didn't smack of academic for me. Also the scene was bit rushed along for my liking. (also my girlfriend was distraught that they didn't film at King's College where she attends Uni!) 

3. The ending. It was more fitting for those who haven't read the book but for me it was far too different from the book's ending. When they arrive at Roslin it is to be reunited with Spohie's grandmother and brother. Although we see Sophie's brother its not mentioned that he is her long lost brother. Also, where did all those people come from?!!? And the chamber in the floor? Not good. As everyone whose watch Tony Robinson in england knows that no one has found an entrance to the vast chamber that was discovered to be lying underneath the chamber.

Good points of the movie include the performances of Paul Bettany and Sir Ian McKellen. Outstanding. Bettany is unrecognisable from the last film I saw him in (Wimbledon)and plays the part of Silas with such enthusiasm and really makes you believe the performance. McKellen just was in his element in the role of Teabing. from the moment he descended the stairs to the moment he was taken away by the police he was amazing. Bringing with him the British wit and humour that Dan Brown had intended with the character.

Overall the film is outstanding and is intended for those who have and who haven't read the book, a sort of in between so people don't have to have read the book to understand the plot. It's a good piece of cinematic work and will definitely be as talked about as much the novel whether it be bad or good. 

An excellent film.