I heard Peter Jackson was remaking King Kong a year or two before December 2005. I was only a little interested, because I'm not a Lord of the Rings fan, at least not as much as most people are. When I went to see War of the Worlds, I knew the King Kong trailer was coming, but I didn't know exactly when. When a trailer came on with a plane's view of the Empire State Building, with Jack Black in the next clip, I thought, "This is the King Kong trailer." But I wasn't completely sure. There were other things in the first half of the trailer that didn't seem like a King Kong movie. But the more the trailer continued, the more the intensity built up. I liked how I thought, not knowing for sure, that it was the King Kong trailer. And when it built up to the part where it said "From Academy Award-winning director Peter Jackson," and the part where the giant ape appears, "Yes! This is the King Kong trailer!" At that time, I hadn't seen the first King Kong, and I didn't know it was about movie makers, neither did I know the movie had dinosaurs. All I knew was that there was a scene with Kong on the Empire State Building. I watched the trailer, watched the girl falling, Kong catching her, pulling her out from the T-Rex's bite reach. I watched T-Rex walking over, the girl turning around, Kong landing and roaring, the words "KING KONG" appearing on the screen. I said, "Wow! I want to see this movie!" I've never seen a more awesome trailer.

The 1933 King Kong, special edition DVD was released about a month before the remake came to theaters. I rented it opening day, excited for the remake, and because I wanted to see the original before the remake. The original was black and white, with somewhat bad special effects, but of course King Kong was made in the early days of movie making, and the special effects for its day were actually very good. The thrill it had for its day was very good. I gave it 8/10. On this special edition DVD, there's a feature about the making of the 1933 King Kong, and Peter Jackson is one of those interviewed. I think he was actually a producer of the making-of documentary, and there were other features on the 1933 King Kong DVD looking a little at the making of the remake, which was interesting, because it was before the remake came out. I'd say that any fan of any King Kong movie should own the original King Kong special edition DVD.

I watched the remake opening day at midnight. It was great. I expected to give it 8/10, because I gave the original 8/10. It was 8/10 because it was good, the story was great, but there were a few elements I didn't understand much. I rewatched it a few weeks later, on the same day that I watched Godzilla (1998). Godzilla was a movie I'd seen before, which I'd given 9/10. But even with King Kong's rating of 8/10, I felt that King Kong had to be rated higher than Godzilla. Because everything I didn't understand the first time I understood this time, and because of the modern visual effects, I liked it better than before, so I rerated it 9/10, listed higher than Godzilla. King Kong vs. Godzilla, King Kong wins.

One minor negative note though, there are some awesome clips in the trailer that weren't in the final movie: Jack Black says: "We have three hours to find a new leading lady or we're finished." Adrien Brody looks from the boat at Naomi Watts. Jack Black directs Naomi Watts on the island shore, which is actually very similar to a scene in the original. Kong's close-up eyes open. Something slithers in the water. Somebody drowning. A couple months passed, and I never saw the King Kong trailer again. When the DVD came out, I bought it. The DVD had no trailer, nor any deleted scenes. I was disappointed, hoping that an extended edition would eventually be released, like Peter Jackson's LotR movies. But as far as I knew, it was never coming. Months later, I heard about a deluxe extended edition. I bought it. I was glad to see the trailer in the features. But of all the scenes in the trailer that weren't in the regular edition, only the scene with the slithery creature and someone drowning were in the extended movie. But the extended edition King Kong is still great.

When I told my family that I had bought the extended edition, one family member was interested, because he's a big monkey fan, but others said they didn't like King Kong, that it wasn't as good as LotR, or that it was lame. It is not lame. Maybe the boat ride to the island is slow, but it still has some good parts. The T-Rex fight is awesome. The theme and emotion is incredibly moving. The original King Kong was only 100 minutes long, and the remake is 187 minutes, not including the extended scenes, and some might say it was way too long, but the more you see the ape, the more you love the ape. And if you like LotR, you shouldn't have much problem with King Kong. And the important thing to know is that it was the original King Kong that made Peter Jackson want to be a movie maker, not Lord of the Rings. He is more of a King Kong fan than he is an LotR fan. He wanted to remake King Kong before he made LotR. It's a pity that LotR is more popular than King Kong. It's a pity that Peter Jackson won his awards for LotR, but not King Kong. I like King Kong much more than Lord of the Rings, and I wish more people did.