This is nothing like the source novel on which its based for the simple reason it is a film and therefore, the experience of watching it will never approximate to the experience of reading the book.

My second issue with those who criticise its lack of an authentic, realistic account, is that no film text can ever represent more than a partial aspect of anything, let alone an event as enormous as the holocaust. Any representation is only ever that, a representation. It is a mediation of reality. In order to get any sense of the holocaust an investment in the imagination is required. In this sense, movies which are more stylised and perhaps seem more abstract, like this, with washed out colour, heavy music scores are more effective than something using conventions of realism. Such as SCHINDLERS LIST.

When I went round Auschwitz the most upsetting thing I came across was a display of photographs of a family, with an accompanying text explaining who the people in the pictures were, where they were from, their businesses. A picture of a smiling, young couple on holiday in the alps. I could easily identify with these people and imagine the sheer terror and unimaginable pain they must have gone through to have everything taken from them. I imagined my extended family - aunts, cousins, uncles, grandparents, all rounded up, 'transported' and ultimately obliterated. 

There is never going to be any single definitive account of the holocaust since everyone who survived has their own particular, unique account. Ultimately, the dead are the only ones who can properly tell us about the holocaust.

The open ended scenes in this film work to enable the audience to share in the sense of dislocation experienced by the characters. We continue to live with the holocaust. Without taking sides, the attempt to eradicate Europes Jews has obvious ramifications today in the Israel - Palestine - Iraq - US - Iran situation. History is not a closed off narrative with a beginning, middle and end, its usual treatment in films. It might more helpfully be seen as a continuum. Some would argue the holocaust of the Jews was not a unique event. Witness Cambodia, Rwanda, or, in Europe itself, the atrocities committed during the break up of Yugoslavia. That is not to minimise the Nazi genocide, but to remember it and other genocides. As Santayana said, 'Those who do not remember the past are condemned to repeat it.'

Another film, based on a true story, about a teenage boy who survived the holocaust, is Agnieska Hollands EUROPA EUROPA, which I think is really interesting to watch with this one. It has a very different treatment and won an Oscar in 1992 for best foreign film.

Ultimately films like this enter the category of Art by stirring debate and inviting us to consider how we try to make sense of things which, ultimately, can make no sense at all.