Over the course of three viewings I have finally seen this entire film.

The first time I started watching this film it was about the halfway point. I caught it just when things were starting to roll for the boys in the band. It was intriguing to see how arrogant and disrespectful Troy was to his band mates and friends. Yet they tolerated his abuse, and plodded on, thinking that there was going to be a big payday on the horizon that would make it all worth it. Eventually, I pieced the rest of the film together over two more viewings, and as one piece it's a doozy.

First off, I am so glad someone decided to put a camera on this whole situation. It's seems crazy at times to think that Troy Duffy would say and do all that he did with a camera on him, on what seems like an around the clock basis. I don't know about you, but I have this little voice in the back of my head that tells me not to do things, and when I am on video, that voice gets even louder. Whoever was taping Troy had to have been saying to himself, "one day, this is going to be worth it." This film goes up and down, over and over. One minute Troy is nice to everybody, he's happy, they're getting deals made, or so they think. Then a hurdle is overcome, they celebrate, the deal falls through, and Troy goes ballistic on everyone within arms reach. Rinse, Repeat.

I'm willing to bet that Troy has been in quite a few fist fights in his life. There is no way a person can walk around being that proud of themselves, despite not being a very good person, and not find a few guys willing to throw haymakers at him.

I loved how this movie brought to light how crazy the lust for fame and fortune can make people. The pursuit of fame and fortune drove Troy to be a major pain in the ass for lots of people. It also drove his band mates to tolerate his behavior. I love this movie, it's tragic and funny, it's sad and true and realistic, but I don't feel a bit downtrodden when I watch it. Even though the film doesn't show anyone but Troy acting like a obvious dick, (he kinda takes the cake for being a dick), I don't feel bad for them at all. The band must have needed him much more than Troy needed the band. Otherwise they would have dumped Troy just as quickly as everyone else did.