http://eattheblinds.blogspot.com/

The hype is right. The Dark Knight is the greatest super hero movie ever made. Some might even go so far as to say it's the best movie ever made, but don't put me in that faction. Sadly, saying this is the best super hero movie ever isn't really saying much considering it really only had itself (aka Batman Begins) to outdo. It goes without saying the super hero genre has been notoriously weak, with exceptions being: Richard Lester's Superman II, Richard Donner's Superman, Tim Burton's Batman & Batman Returns and Jon Favreau's Iron Man. 

TDK is epic. It runs for 152 minutes and there really is little or no fat in those two and a half hours. Director Christopher Nolan and his brother Jonah shared screen writing duties and they have to be given tremendous credit for capturing the dark and distinct tone of graphic novels, in addition to penning subtextual elements critiquing certain moral and ethical hot button political issues. The plot is deep, dark and shares more in common with The Godfather than anything else in the super hero genre. In other words, this is much more than a mere comic book action movie.

In fact, Nolan should be given credit for reinventing the genre, by taking it out of the realm of mere spectacle and for making its themes, story and characters the centerpiece. Whereas most comic book movies before TDK could be considered kids movies, TDK is unquestionably one for adults. Nolan's reinvention began with Batman Begins when he immersed Batman, Bruce Wayne and Gotham in the real world and with TDK Nolan ratchets up the realism by making a film that's as dramatically engaging as it is visceral. A fair amount of press has been given to Nolan's commitment to reproducing reality (via practical effects/stunts vs. CG) and there's no question the action feels palpable, but as impressive as the technical aspects behind TDK are, it is the writing that separates it from everything else in its genre.As impressive as the Nolan's writing and directing is, it's impossible to ignore the collective work of the ensemble cast. Not since Michael Cimino and his epic ensemble pieces has there been an A-list level of ensemble excellence associated with a true Hollywood blockbuster. While many big budget films assemble impressive rosters of Academy Award winning actors, they seldom demand little or no heavy lifting from their stars. TDK is, refreshingly, an exception to this current trend of throwaway performances.

Without debate, Heath Ledger's turn as the Joker will cement the late actor's reputation, leaving admirers with little else to do but ponder what more this gifted actor could have accomplished. Ledger's disturbingly psychopathic Joker is an impressive counterpoint to his quiet and tortured performance in Brokeback Mountain proving Ledger not only possessed incredible range, but was easily the most talented (and interesting) actor of his generation. Yet, as exciting as Ledger is to watch as the Joker, this is Christian Bale's film and he turns in an equally impressive (yet far more subdued) performance as the psychologically complex and tortured anti-hero / industrialist Bruce Wayne. Bale literally seethes with contempt throughout TDK and if you've ever read Frank Miller's graphic novel Batman the Dark Knight Returns then it won't take much to envision a fifty-something Bale reprising the role of Batman down the road. With a little luck Nolan will be back at the helm.

My plan is to return to the theater to see TDK again. I don't do this very often since few films warrant any reason to. The last time I did so was three separate screenings of Children of Men. COM is, in my mind, a contemporary masterpiece. Does TDK stand up to COM? Is it better?