Egh... In all honesty, (and only in my opinion), this film's lack of existence would have helped the series over-all. It was intended to tie up all of the loose ends, but personally, I think this film created more holes than it patched.

First off... the actress of Jamie Lloyd in parts 4 & 5 should have been played by Danielle Harris herself, IF the movie absolutely HAD to be made. Second, I'm aware that the ending occurrence of Dr. Sam Loomis was in reality, unexpected, but... perhaps they could have went about announcing it a bit differently. I didn't really like the way that they let the audience know about it in the end. Also- as most of us that have seen it before know, the film introduces Jamie Lloyd's son, (which is obviously Michael Myers' 'grand'-nephew, and therefore explains why Michael wanted him- because of his family/blood relation to him,), but it never offers any kind of follow-up to what ever happens to the baby.

The following sequel, "Halloween: H20" didn't provide any kind of information on Jamie's baby, or Jamie herself, yet featured what would be Jamie's biological brother, "John", as Laurie Strode's son. ...Which was a mistake on their part. (The writers of H20) To top all of that off, just the simple idea of Michael being involved in a cult is rather... disappointing. I think it's more enjoyable not knowing what's behind Michael's actions. It's better being kept in suspense and in wonder, rather than having it be explained. If they absolutely HAD to explain it, they could have at least made the viewer do some thinking to figure it out on their own.

With so many things wrong with this sequel, it's a wonder why I'm giving it even a 3/10. I suppose that 3 can be divided into three parts: A) It at least HAS Michael in it, unlike Part III. B) It's at least a good stalker/slasher flick if you're dying of boredom. C) Dr. Sam Loomis' story is explained and the occurrence is made know, as opposed to what they could have done, and left it unknown, and that would have caused viewers and film-researchers to complain wildly. So those three things exist, which makes this film just above Halloween III, but it's still the worst sequel made with Michael involved.