This is definitely my favorite animated comedy. When I watched it at a local movie theater, everyone was laughing, the adults as much as the kids. There was no back-door, off-color humor for the adults to snicker at and pass meaningful glances over, it was simply funny: good, clean fun across the board. My 3-year-old granddaughter made it through the entire movie, usually she can't do that. She laughed a lot, although, part of that was from getting caught up with the laughter in the the audience. It was probably the visual funniness that she was able to latch onto within the movie itself, a few times she also caught the funniness of some dialog, evidenced by things she would say. It was visually funny, the words were funny, it was a great movie that I could see again and again. I had no idea it was out in 3D, and now hope to see it at an IMAX.

Most of the animals were equally funny. The ending is priceless, too. Another review mentioned Looney Tunes, and I can see a comparison, a bit. The animals make these little "aside" comments now and again, maybe a lot, I don't know, but one of those times is when the dachshund makes a comment to the audience about its owner that just brings the house down, so tongue in cheek it is, it takes a second to absorb the surprise, and then it is funny to remember for weeks. The dachshund's comment reminded me of something Jack Benny might have popped out with impromptu if he were alive. And if Johnny Carson were alive, he would fit into this movie REALLY well as one of the animal characters, maybe as an animal that got tickled over things, not that Carson would make the movie better, my point is that such a character could fit into this entourage delightfully. To me, it lives up to that kind of quality. Many of the reviews, though, appear not to reflect this high regard, and I find it hard to understand why everybody doesn't agree that this movie is stellar. 

In comparison, Over the Hedge was not so memorable. I recall it being acceptably funny, but it quickly faded into a distant memory. Open Season will be with me vividly for years, even if I don't get to see it again. I would say that a comparable regular movie would be Mr. Deeds.