These guys are so pathetic they can't even play guitars. They play tribal garage music, which is embarrassing to watch in adults. They play a series of "notes". Not songs, but just pre-arranged notes. Chords are too complicated-just turn up the amplifier and voila-the note sounds as full as a chord! They even use electronics to speed up their guitar playing-which they call "doubling". Just watch Kirk Hammett try to learn a riff, while using doubling technology. The tech is too confusing for Kirk to learn easily. However. This music is obviously exciting, and loud and stunning and fun. The technique in this band clearly belongs to the drummer and the audio technicians. Technique is crucial to musicians. These musicians search for a sound that creates a tribal experience-but not supported by anything but garage-band technique. It is a pitiful thing to watch grown men create GARBAGE that they clearly want to sell- to people who have even less taste than the band. This is musicianship, minus the musician. So James and Lars and Kirk just agonize about how to create a song without an idea or composition of an idea or a goal or anything substantial. They are just screwing around. Just watch their hands: The guitarists are just playing a melodic line-just like the bass player. The guitarists throw in chords like olives in a martini. Meanwhile-this is a story about a drunk So-cal groovy motor-head guitarist versus a Euro-drummer who still talks to his hippie dad. I liked this movie. What the F****!

P.S. The "amateur" bass player "Elena", who wins the bass-player auditions in this movie, should have been chosen as Metallica's new bass player. I know current bassist Rob Trujillo is an engaging muscular outgoing player. He projects a certain demographic- as basically a snowboarder-of-the-bass. He is absolutely excellent. I just fell in love with Elena's long silky black hair and bright eyes and skillful technique. The whole idea of a female person in the mighty mighty Metal Guy Band has the scent of genius in it. She is not as show biz flashy as Rob Trujillo. However. The bass player in the Rolling Stones was a quiet figure on stage who just played all that was necessary and was magnificent. The idea that this "Elena" would be a neophyte in an old and storied heavy metal franchise is what you call romantic. The learning curve would be large but not impossible for her: It's just rock and roll. I suspect the old wizened rockers of Metallica wanted an instant plug-in persona/bassist in Rob Trujillo. Obviously they needed a go-to veteran bassist for their world tour--Today! This was a wasted opportunity nevertheless.