Having seen Batman Begins, audiences can't wait for another installment in the Nolan Batman saga. However, the kind people at Warner decides to quench our thirst with this animated film while we were waiting for "The Dark Knight".

Set in the same universe as the Nolan Batman saga, this Japanese anime inspired film tells six interlocking stories of the Batman/Bruce Wayne. Each of the six stories has its own unique animation style and is clearly meant for eye candy, however fans won't be disappointed by this as it give a glimpse of what our Caped Crusader went through and what the people of Gotham have to think about him. Batman is not a superhero although he is clearly labeled as such, he is merely a tortured soul who wants to protect the innocents by giving the criminals a dose of their own medicine - fear.

There are four stories which managed to capture my attention. The first story, "Have I Got A Story For You", interestingly explores the thoughts of a group of youngsters giving their somewhat exaggerated opinions of Batman, as the sequence takes place right after "Batman Begins". The art, which is done by the same group responsible for Tekkon Kinkreet, is fluid. The second story, "Crossfire" shows us two Gotham police officers discussing how their chief wants to protect a vigilante more than the city itself, and is a great look into the citizens of Batman. The fourth story, "Field Test", looks into the life of Bruce Wayne the billionaire, and his social life. However it is the fifth which is gripping, "Working Through Pain", which shows a battered Batman crawling through sewers gasping for life, and then showing flashbacks of Bruce Wayne's training in India for endurance. The weakest entries are from Madhouse studios, the third story "In Darkness Dwells" shows Batman fighting a monstrous villain named Killer Croc and Scarecrow himself, and the last story, "Deadshot", sees our anti-hero battling odds with a professional sniper. While weak in story and characterization, both sequences are visually stunning, especially the latter.

The voice acting is commendable. Kevin Conroy returns as the voice of Batman. His acting is powerful and emotional at scenes. Some commendable chops - CSI's Gary Dourdan as a Gotham police officer who has doubts about the city and Batman, and Rob Paulsen as mob boss Maroni. The weakest voice job has to go to Parminder Nagra, who is seriously hammy in her voice acting.

Overall, I did not expect it to be good, what with all the anime influence, but I ended up satisfied. Its great to know how people adapt to a vigilante in their city. However, as mentioned on this site, nothing can prepare anyone for the apotheosis of the superhero genre, that is "The Dark Knight", the cinematic brilliance that has Bruce Wayne battling odds and wits against the Clown Prince of Crime, The Joker.

Overall rating: 7/10

Delton