In the year 2005, this film is about 6 years old. I have had the DVD for a while and watched the film several times before now deciding to write and appreciation of it on IMDb. My conclusion after repeated viewings is that this film is one of THE most romantic films made in the present day. Not crude, vulgar and boring sex scenes, but real love, real passion, complicity, awkwardness of people to show their love but LOVE without the shadow of a doubt !

I used to think the film was too slow, with time I now find that this is not the case, of course the haunting theme music and thoughtful filming of coastal scenes made an impression on me from the outset but on my first viewing it did seem to drag a bit and appear overlong. I now change my appreciation of that point. Paul Newman's role is funny and touching and he really is an integral part of the film, Robin Wright was absolutely perfect ( I'm not usually in to tall lanky blondes but make an exception in this case !! ) - her composition was absolutely perfect and Iloved her accent which, for me at least, seem to have just the right tone for a lady in love. As to Kevin Costner, I do wish he could have been a little more aggressively passionate at times to respond to Robin Wright, but this criticism seems to diminish the more I watch it.

Nowadays snobbish cinema critics consider a film is not good if it has a happy ending and therefore by definition a good film would need to have a bad ending. Too many people criticise the "candy coated" ending to films. Well, why shouldn't they have a happy ending, there's absolutely nothing wrong with that and I consider that kind of film critic to be an inverted snob ! Whatever the ending of "Message in a Bottle" ( I will not speak of it here ), this is truly a very good film. If the evolution of my own appreciation is anything to go by I think that with time the film will GROW in importance and stature, just like certain films considered uninteresting at the time of their issue are now considered as veritable masterpieces. This is one of those. Take your time to watch it, stock up with Kleenex (no, it's not a joke) feel the emotion exuded by the players, watch it again and again, you will not come out unscathed emotionally !