The truth is that it has been difficult to me to enter a little in this film, I recognize that at first it is not easy that it hooks you, given that the requirements do not help to entering in the film, on the contrary, they identify a place of the that little people it would want to go or at least to live. A Brazilian zone very arid, desert, suns sand, and with the minimum of water to survive.

This makes that the role of the actors/actresses is more distinguished, more imported, for such keeps on being entered in their so particular world. Of first everybody we identify with the protagonist, feeble delivery of the story, pregnant woman who wishes to go in order to have her son in another place where the life is easier. Some characters that they sell are from the civilization and therefore they know that the to leave that place is necessary in order to make something in their lives. Him, the husband, a crazy man who does not want to know nothing of the civilization denies her, his son and the mother of her the possibility to come back there.

Detached they will be other circumstances and characters who will avoid the power to leave this desert place. The same actresses embody characters who evolve during the years, and interpret equally the mother, the daughter and the grandson although it is not makes stranger and do not make it enough understandable and at all confusing in a way.

To highlight the erotic scene, among Areia i Massu, a scene full of exoticism and sexuality, of the most exciting and intense that I have seen in the cinema in a lot of time. I believe that this film does not stop being a metaphor about our lives, about the desire to bring about our dreams and to wish the improvement of our reality. And like once not have to achieve these dreams, we end up clutching in our realities, and to the people that we love.

The final comment where Maria tells her mother Areia, already with a very advanced age, that the man has gone to the moon, it is great and and it finishes with a very personal message of the creator of the story. I interpret with this end, that Maria communicates metaphorically her mother Areia, that even if she has been able to go from there, in the requirement she has found the same miseries and difficulties. A great end.