Chris is determined to get to a vital appointment, but a traffic pile-up on the West Virginia highway makes him take a turn off onto a dirt road. Suddenly without notice, Chris smashes his car into a Range Rover that had its tyres cut up by some homemade barbwire trap. So, Chris and a group of young guys and gals led by Jessie, decide to go out and find help. Instead they come across a cabin that holds some horrific secrets and human remains. Now they realise that they're being hunted down by a couple of inbred, cannibalistic rednecks.

Welcome to a brutal, physical and no-nonsense contemporary throwback of the glory days in rough n' tumble 70's horror. Yep, that's what "Wrong Turn" just happens to be. Influences from such 70s survival grindhouse films like; "The Hill Have Eyes (1977)", "The Texas Chainsaw Massacre (1974)" and even "Deliverance (1972)" figure very prominently in the story. Sure, the plot's structure is plain derivative, but its not trying to be anything big. Really it just wants to get back to its primitive roots. It's a simple and entertaining stalk 'n' slash device of the old school horror and I thought it does it rather successfully. Although, in the long run its not quite so memorable, but still when it kicks into second gear after the somewhat slow opening, it does deliver the exciting and adrenaline packed goods one could only ask for. One thing you'll notice straight away is that it stays clear away from the self-referential material that was flooding horror pictures around the same time. There's some humorous dialogues, but it mostly plays the horror straight. This is what gives the film a breath of fresh air, but sadly it didn't have much of an impact on the box-office and disappeared rather quickly.

FX guru Stan Winston produced this backwoods horror and got debut director Rob Schmidt to bring Alan McElroy's story to the screen. Making up the cast are some small names like Eliza Dushku, Desmond Harrington, Jeremy Sisto and the appealing Lindy Booth. Stan Winston and his FX crew came up with horrific looking brutes of mountain man, which have certain reality in the deformities and their own fierce personalities. Also some grisly make-up effects are mixed in with a slight dose of digital treatment. The violence isn't filled with explicit splatter, but there's a cruel and a touch of gore amongst the many inventive death scenes. Yeah, the deaths scenes are actually quite original (look at the treetop sequence) and far from easy to detect when they're about to come. The shocks are well integrated into the formulaic story because of such assured direction by Schmidt who's not afraid to get down and dirty with the psychical nature of the story. The interchangeable characters are nothing more then a stereotypical bunch waiting for their turn on the chopping board. Sadly I found the most interesting ones to be the ones to die first. Although the performances aren't too bad with Dushku as the bold, firebrand Jessie and Desmond Harrington's gritty Chris. The only character that annoyed the hell out of me was Emmanuelle Chriqui's whiny "I can't do it!" Carly. Now the script they had to work with was kinda flabby and quite leaden, but they did well by not letting it take over. Story wise, there's not much there to hold a story with, as it clocks up just less than 80 minutes. It covers every cliché and has plenty of loose ends, but there is decent bloodletting and a couple of good suspenseful spurts that makes the time go by quick. The film is fluidly shot and very well mounted and the petering score sprung up a belting rhythm.

It's not going to win any awards and shake new ground, but it's a well-grounded and meaty horror flick without any pretentious marks.