I watched at least 80% of this movie in fast forward.

Why? Because there was absolutely no point in listening to the dialog. IT was of the "Get over here before I come over there and kill you." variety. Basically it has no depth whatsoever. Each episode is basically an extension of the first scene. Thus it is one shoot out after another. You could just put the first ten minutes on a loop and watch it over and over again for 100 minutes and there you go. Dialogue like this is the fault of the Zombie. He wrote the first thing that came into his head and let it stay. Then he allowed the actors to deliver their lines with apparently no rehearsals. The dialog fall dead from the lips every time. What I love the most is a family of pathological killers who still agonize over the pain and death of one another. Thus in one scene a killer is taunting innocent people and torturing them for no good reason except to burn film, and in another scene they are saying "No you can't kill momma." Are they crazy or not? This contradiction falls on the shoulders of Zombie, who can not think past the next four seconds of film and threw more stop action footage and still shots than in news reels. I'm sure some will think this is top notch entertainment because Zombie goes for several styles and tones, praying one of them will find an audience. But the conflicting styles render the film hopelessly fragmented and devoid of all unified vision. Note to Mr. Zombie: Just because you have lots of swearing doesn't mean you can justify making a 100 minute movie out of a skin deep plot. I just wish insta-directors like Zombie could recognize when they have a thirty minute movie and make a thirty minute movie instead of adding six or seven fight scenes and calling it a feature. Devils Rejects literally played like Zombie was making it up as he went along. Terrible. Right down to the bright white teeth on a filthy psychopath living in squalor. Terrible. Anyone over 15 years old should avoid this reject.