Mel Gibson is fast becoming one of the great cinematic storytellers of our generation. In Apocalypto he recreated a jungle Mayan tribe. With an exquisite eye for detail and a fantastic camera work. We go hunting with our idyllic tribe and meet the various hunters and their families. One hunter, Jaguar's Paw, has a spiritualness about him, its this inner-sense that will later save his life. Gibson's tribe is pillaged by Mayan's from the city on a slaver/sacrifice raid. Jaguar Paw is the first to sense something was wrong. He saves his own family but goes back to help his family and friends. In that effort he is captured. Gibson takes us through the jungle to a huge Mayan city. Where we come upon limestone mines. The Mayans used limestone to path their streets and to use on their great buildings. At first, we think our tribe is going to be used for slave labor. But, no, the actual mining for limestone has corrupted the soil and the Mayan city is starving. 

Our tribe is brought to a sacrificial temple where they are offered to the gods as sacrifice to get their crops to grow. There are graphic scenes of organs being pulled from bodies and beheadings. But, in the true Mayan and Aztec societies, these rituals could have been even more barbaric. So, Gibson could have went even further and been historically accurate but, he didn't, and we got the message. 

When our friend, Jaguar's Paw, is brought to the sacrificial altar a total solar eclipse happens and our tribe is seemingly spared from the altar. Only to be used as target practice for the Mayan warriors. This too, is another historically correct sequence, where warriors honed their craft on captured Indians. Our surviving tribe members are told that if they get past the cornfield at the end of the stadium, they are only moments from the jungle and their freedom. Reminiscent of the great Cornell Wilde's Naked Prey. 

I strongly recommend you watch this film. It's an amazing story told by Gibson with a surprise ending in keeping with our historical theme!