In Los Angeles, we follow the turmoil and obsession that swallows secret service agent Richard Chance, when his long-time partner and good buddy, Michael Greene, is killed by counterfeiter Eric 'Rick' Masters. Now it's personal and the hotheaded, Chance is doing anything possible to nail down Masters. In doing so, Chance is putting his and new partner's, John Pankow, career on the line, by stretching the law to suit his own agenda.

Now this incredible flick doesn't hold back on its searing material and it lays it down thick and fast! William Friedkin's "To Live and Die in L.A." is a sophisticatedly, hard-boiled crime thriller (adapted from the novel of Gerald Petievich, a former Secret Service agent) that has a plethora of unexpected turns and a very trance like appeal within its powerful makeup. For me, I don't care what anybody thinks, but this is one my favourite flicks and IMO, wait wait Friedkin's best. It might start off like a generic crime flick, but the symbolic themes running throughout the feature smacks you hard and are very important to the story's success in building an authentically grimy and hysterical edge amongst the highly flashy direction. There's such a strong realistic tone belted out, because of the way director Friedkin captures the explosively gritty, terribly relentless and deceitful cloud that puts you right into this hazy situation, on who's really batting for the good side. Where the fine line between cop and criminal merges into one in this artificial (counterfeit) world.

There are a lot of fine theatrical touches and the main striking one, really goes for the extraordinary, hurtling car chase that's purely dynamite and excitingly executed because of its risky set-up. Precise handling and considerable skill makes this outing visually appealing and plenty staples of beautiful photography shots gives it an hypnotic pull and a sweeping motion that carries you along for one really pressure filled ride. Definitely screaming at you is a very 80s feel, thanks largely to Wang Chong's energy packed score that always on the move with it's biting flair. Sure, people are going to complain about it, but I didn't mind it, actually.

The film's intense levels and sincerity is raised above the bar, because of picture-perfect acting from a well-ensemble cast. William Dafoe kicks in with an impressive performance as the sly weasel, Eric 'Rick' Masters. Making their big debuts are, William Peterson and John Pankow. Peterson puts the boot in to give an excellently raw and hard-edge performance as secret service agent Richard Chance and Pankow equally so, as the very alert new partner John Vukovich. Brilliant support roles in the shape of John Turturro as the slimy Carl Cody, one of Master's runners. Dean Stockwell plays the sneaky lawyer Bob Grimes, Darlanne Fluegel as the naturally stunning parolee Bianca Torres being used by Chance and Debra Feuer is manipulative, piercing as Master's flame, Ruth Lanier.

What's makes this pounding flick inventively, wicked and far from contrived, is the way the film's material goes about its character's relationships with devious twists and deceptions making way for a great showstopper of an ending.

A well-crafted and quite established crime thriller with explosive bursts interwoven into its glitzy, but also roughly cold embrace.