This film is about people working and staying at the Ambassador Hotel in Los Angeles, the day Robert Kennedy was shot there.

There are actually two films here. The first is a narrative about a bunch of truly uninteresting and useless personalities who work in a hotel. The other is a collection of film clips from the RFK campaign. Putting the two of these together could have been a good idea. In this case, it results in nothing less than a disaster and travesty, which insults us the audience, and even worse, it immerses RFK into the worst kind of soap opera trash. It's an insult to all concerned.

I gave this film two stars, instead of zero, because of the film clips, and Laurence Fishburne's acting, which almost saved the character he was playing. In all honesty, it's been a long time since I've seen a film this bad. Furthermore, I lived thru the 60's, and this film does nothing whatsoever to capture the atmosphere of the times. The doper scenes are caricatures. There's no tension whatsoever, either between the characters, or about the politics of the day. Believe me, 1968 was anything but a dull year. People were truly freaking out. The whole country was falling apart. From this film, we're led to believe that the biggest crisis of the day was a dullsville hotel manager cheating on his wife, and an alcoholic lounge singer.

What were the people who made this garbage thinking?

====================

Well, that's the review I wrote immediately after seeing this film. However, upon further reflection, I'm having a very different take.

Particularly irksome was the casting in this story. It's all big names. In fact, it's totally topheavy. This is most annoying. "Oh, there's the Hobbit!" "Oh, there's the West Wing!" "Oh, there's Morpheus!" If a Hollywood film has two of these people, that's normal; they're balanced by the lesser known actors.

But these are not stupid people. So it dawned on me; this is exactly what they wanted to do. This is not really a film about RFK, or the assassination, or the Ambassador Hotel. It's a political statement from Hollywood. Laurence Fishburne's Uncle Tom routine has nothing to do with the story line; it's seriously out of whack with the politics of race of the day. That's clear. This also explains why none of the subplots ties in at all with the assassination. They're not supposed to. I kept wondering what the heck the Czech reporter had to do with any of this. Now it's clear. She was there to show that tho the message is anti-right establishment, but they're not Commmie Pinkos, the traditional retort of the conservative right. And that stuff about the CHADS! obvious in retrospect.

This film is an in joke. It's a message from the Hollywood elite about how little we've progressed, and how off track politically and socially we've become, how we're still embroiled in stupid wars, racism, poitical duplicity, etc. That's the only explanation that makes any sense to me. These are not stupid people. Taken at face value, this film is nonsense.