With the release of District 13, car chases are now a thing of the past. I mean who needs a massively tuned Ferrari careening recklessly around the streets of LA while souped up pursuit vehicles filled with gunmen hurtle into chaotic pile ups when they seem positively dull compared to watching David Belle hurling himself out of windows, down drain pipes and off buildings with a gang of thugs who are not quite as talented as him trying to keep up? And yes folks, it's that David Belle, the French pioneer of Parkour, the extreme sport that consists of running around urban landscapes trying not to get yourself killed and he and his co-star Cyril Raffaeli are outstanding. Not at acting of course, but at putting their very lives on the line to deliver a movie that revolves around the sport and makes similar action movies look stale.

The story takes place in near future France where a massive wall has sprung up around district 13, the most crime-riddled ghetto in the country in an attempt to keep the unsavoury inhabitants separated from everybody else. Only problem is, one of the gangs has got hold of an A bomb...

Cue Captain Tomaso (Raffaeli), a police officer who is teamed up with Leito (Belle), a good natured ex-resident to recover and disarm it, along with beating up several jewellery clad gangsters who happen to be in the way. The duo are introduced to viewers one after the other in a pair of jaw dropping action sequences; the first displaying Belle's parkour skills and the second pitching Raffaeli against a casino filled with mobsters. Each of these sequences are incredible - Belle makes running away from fights look phenomenal, while Raffaeli comes across as a French Tony Jaa as he gets up close and personal with some bone crunching martial arts fury - but unfortunately, they unleash the full bag of tricks too soon.

Not that there isn't plenty of similar stuff to follow, it just pales in comparison to these opening scenes. You spend the rest of the film leaning forward in your seat, rubbing your hands with anticipation for a head-splintering fight scene to outdo the beginning, it just never comes. As a result, the latter half of the movie comes as a mild disappointment even though there are numerous bouts included in it.

That said, it's still great entertainment and both lead actors should hopefully have a bright future ahead of them even if they are more stunt men than outright thespians. By the time the movie is over you'll want to run outside, jump off a garage and roll off the top of a car underneath it. Then blow it up. More than anything though, it'll have you counting the days till the cast and crew make another movie, hopefully one that pitches Raffaeli toe to toe with Tony Jaa...