Supposedly the final martial arts film for Jet Li. I don't know if I believe that or not but if it's true he couldn't go out of the genre on a much better note. Fearless is a loosely based biopic on Huo Juan Jia, a fighter and folk hero from the early twentieth century, when the west was bleeding into China and attempting to assimilate it and squash its culture for profit. Not surprisingly, many Chinese felt conflicted, scared, and humiliated by this situation. Huo Juan Jia, his legendary fights, and his school brought back a feeling of pride and unity to a lot of people and this is the reason he was a hero. Much has been made of the accuracy of this movie, even a lawsuit filed by the grandson of the man in question. I don't think, though, that all the facts of the life need to be represented accurately in order to get the message across. Just look at the slew of films made about Wong Fei Hung. The real importance comes from the fact that he restored a feeling of unity and pride that had been damaged in his people.

The film is beautifully shot and very cinematic, something that has become more commonplace in the genre since Crouching Tiger. I am glad, too, because it's about time that Kung Fu movies were treated as art just like any other genre. It's nostalgic and fun to watch the old Shaw brothers flicks but it's really satisfying to see what directors and producers are doing with these kinds of movie nowadays. Fearless is not just an action movie, though the actions sequences are many and brilliant, thanks to the great Yuen Wo Ping. It is also a story about redemption. Recognizing how one can get caught up in pride, money, and distractions and forget about the simple and important things in life. I was impressed by Ronny Wu's direction for the first time and I think I like Jet Li more and more each film I see him in. He is doing a fine job choosing his roles and as he gets older he seems to be challenging himself more as an actor and proving that he can do more than amaze us with his skill as a martial artist. This film should be ranked among the best in the genre and I think when it comes out in the states it will make a big impact among fans of Kung Fu and action movies, though I'm sure it won't do much at the box office, being that it will be released on only an estimated six hundred screens.