Billy Bob Thornton, who directed this masterpiece, knows all about authenticity, as he is the real thing himself. A good ole boy from Arkansas, he has seen the real world and knows that it ain't got palm trees along its drives. Nor does he hobnob with the phonies, and he correctly wonders why he isn't thrown out of Hollywood. This brave, albeit highly neurotic, man (who ever heard of a phobia about antiques before??!) has turned to some real folks to film a story about real folks. His greatest inspiration was to use the amazing Lucas Black to pay the young Devins. Despite the fact that Black has the deepest country-style Alabamba accent you could ever find these days (how well I remember it from the days when I used to know fellows like him), and it is a joy to hear (if you have your Alabamba accent decoding machine handy), so that he does not really belong in Texas, the equally brilliant inspiration of using Henry Thomas compensates, as he is a down-home Texan of just the right type. Matt Damon as the lead modifies his previously learned Tennessee accent and brings it slightly to the West, which is an incredible feat for a Bostonian! The performances in this powerful and gripping saga are intense and convincing, and everybody wins. Bruce Dern and Sam Shepard have terrific cameos, and Miriam Colon provides a wonderful performance in a key supporting role. Finally, the story ultimately works because of the superb acting of Penelope Cruz. She is perfectly in her element here as a sizzling Mexican beauty, and the intensity of her passion gives the film the final thing it needed. The dialogue in this film has a wonderful sensitivity to dialect, and there are dozens of touches of phraseology which only a practiced ear could have mastered, - genuine ways of saying things down South which no one from outside the region could possibly know and appreciate. I only wish that more viewers of this film could appreciate just how authentic it really is in terms of the characters, the action, and the dialogue. People these days are all wrapped in bubble-wrap, and have no contact with reality because they live in sanitized suburbs and go to those sterile places called malls (which have destroyed America). Some of the people who have written bad reviews of this film have clearly never met anybody like the people in this film and think the whole thing is made up. It sho' nuff ain't. It may all have died out now (the story is set in 1949), but it was real once, that kind of thing and those kind of folks, and get your heads round that, you spoilt and out of touch softies with your computer games and Ipods. This passionate, desperate story may 'only' be a story, but it is grounded in real types and it says more than any hundred Hollywood movies. It is ironical that Matt Damon, so genuine and moving in his performance here, has been turned into Jason Bourne who has no personality, and that Penelope strayed for a while into the clutches of that arch-phoney of all time, Tom Cruise. He never deserved her! If you want to know about 'the real thing' watch this.