Even with star power & great special effects,"Van Helsing" does little to enthrall moviegoers or take in big bucks at the box office. Seen more as a tribute to classic horror films such as The Werewolf(Lon Chaney) & Dracula(Bela Legosi), "Van Helsing" just does not have the "bite" that hardcore sci-fi/horror/adventure fans love. The performances of hunk Hugh Jackman(X-Men) & Kate Beckinsale(Underworld) are mediocre at best while Richard Roxburgh as Count Vladislaus Dracula stole the film. David Wenham(Lord of the Rings) provided some comedy relief while the rest of the cast seemed to fade into the scenery. "Van Helsing" will please some, but the most fickle of film goers will scoff at the acting performances & cheesy storyline.

"Van Helsing" chronicles the adventures of Gabriel Van Helsing(Jackman), Vatican orphan & monster hunter. Upon an unsuccessful mission in Paris to capture Mr. Hyde(Robbie Coltrane), Van Helsing returns to the Vatican to meet with Cardinal Jinette(Alun Armstrong) for his most important mission ever. With bumbling friar Carl(David Wenham) by his side, Van Helsing travels to Transylvania to destroy the fiendish Count Vladislaus Dracula & loyal assistant Igor(Kevin J. O'Connor), who plans to unleash his offspring onto the world to feed. In order to complete his evil plan, Dracula must have Dr. Frankenstein's monster's energy in order to bring his vampire babies to life. After fighting off Dracula's brides & the Werewolf(Anna's brother, Velken),Van Helsing, Anna, & Carl attempt to hide Frankenstein's monster from Dracula & his minions. They are attacked by the Werewolf & Dracula's brides, escape, but Van Helsing is bitten by the the Werewolf. To make matters worse, Anna is kidnapped & taken to Dracula's castle & Frankenstein's monster is captured. Van Helsing & Carl successfully save Anna but are over matched by vampires.

Not discouraged, the three heroes find a way to follow Dracula to his remote stronghold to save Frankenstein's monster & the world from certain doom. With a torn piece of a magical painting & his mystical ring, friar Carl finds out how to kill Dracula & the way for Van Helsing to do it. Since bitten by the Werewolf, Van Helsing will turn when the full moon rises & will be able to destroy Dracula. Dracula owns the potion to rid Van Helsing of his curse of lycanthropy. But first, three have to get the antidote from a well-guarded room in Dracula's castle. Once the three are transported to Dracula's castle, Carl & Anna get the antidote with Igor's help & Van Helsing goes after Dracula. Once transformed into a werewolf, Van Helsing battles Dracula to the death. Van Helsing triumphs, thus destroying Dracula's offspring. Tragically, Van Helsing attacks Anna and kills her while she attempted to inject him with the serum. Van Helsing & Carl burn her body in proper fashion on a great mountain near her village. Van Helsing, grieving Anna's death, looks on to new adventures.

Not a bad flick but has too many low points. Jackman & Beckinsale work okay together but have no romantic chemistry. Only great CG & scene-stealing Richard Roxburgh keep this film afloat. Give "Van Helsing" a look but do not expect a lot.