I wasn't expecting much of this when I saw the commercial, aside from a 10-year-old's wet dream: something like Sin City, but with much less of a... Shall we say, plot? After seeing that Ebert and Travers, my two main review men, gave it positive reviews, I decided I might as well go to see it. Turns out, upon first instinct, I was correct. At the same time, I couldn't help but smile for the whole movie.

For anyone who hasn't seen Sin City, I find this to be a very hard movie to explain. Imagine comic books with mindless, but stylish violence, and you'll have Sin City, and the obvious inspiration for this. Where else will you see a man using a gun and a merry-go-round to keep a baby alive? Or, where else will you see a mid-air gunfight involving fighting with parachutes as well? Where are you going to see a man drop his gun in a toilet, take it apart, and use a blow dryer to heat it so that it will fire? And, where else are you going to see the one hundred and one uses of a carrot? It's both tasteless and mindless, but it's also vaguely stylish.

I'll just go ahead and say that the plot is almost virtually non-existent. The script was written by someone who was definitely not looking for any awards, although it is far from Godawful. It was also probably written by an action junkie who has either seen too little or too much action within the past few years. The acting, on the flip side, is really quite wonderful, considering the script. Regardless of the fact that the movie goes too far past the point of no return within the first five minutes, it's quite a great result.

To save anyone some trouble, I don't recommend going to see this if you're going to mind the fact that 99.9% of this movie is violence to the infinite degree, and .1% is what could have been a plot. I will say, though, that the movie is completely enjoyable if you're wanting to see a kick-ass action movie without an ounce of sense. All in all, I have to say that I loved it. Far from perfect, but beyond wonderful.