I went into The Colossus of Rhodes knowing it wouldn't be anything too mind-blowing, especially since the director, "first-time" (in quotes as he directed before in uncredited capacity) Sergio Leone, was under likely restrictions from the producers as to what he could do with the material. Even with the formula of a 2nd-string old time movie like this one might expect some slight subversion, as Kubrick had little moments with Spartacus Leone would with this film. Not quite- there are some small moments of Leone humor strung in there, and a couple of keen visual gags (I did love the bit where the Colossus started to bleed down, as if going to the bathroom). 

But where are the close-ups, one (as in me) would ask? The kind of extreme close-ups shot in a widescreen scope as to turn it really epic, as if the faces were landscapes? Unfortunately Leone and his poor DP Antonio Ballesteros make the images seem too flat in the 2:35:1 scope, and soon the visual scheme becomes something staggering considering the director: dull. And it's not without trying with production and art designs, which are quite spectacular, but the film never feels like it's taking off somewhere, and the story even feels a little confusing, like when a botched kidnapping takes place at a guy's house.

On the other hand, fans of Rory Calhoun might get a kick out of seeing his chiseled features and hair glopped always (even after a dirty fight) with tons of hair-care product. He's worth watching, but really the other actors don't make too much of an impression, aside from the fake beards and the attitudes less than two-dimensional. It doesn't help as well that the dubbing over the original Italian soundtrack (save for Calhoun) is even more mediocre than that done in the spaghetti westerns. 

The plot is fairly simple, and sometimes doesn't even make too much sense- unless you're a fan of Lex Luthor in schemes involving making the colossus more important than Greece- and it's mostly excuses to show off characters in togas and saying pedantic dialog and acting both pretty and crude (though not very dirty or 'off the street' as in other Leone films). There are pockets of drama, like when two soldiers get tortured with hot wax being poured on their chest and back, and a climax that attempts for the staggering in scope.

But despite the lofty intentions at producing good genre product, it lacks subversion and thus becomes rote. I know I shouldn't go too far in length to compare this to his great films (matter of fact, I can't think of one of Leone's westerns, or Once Upon a Time in America, being less than excellent), and that it's his technical debut as director. But what's most disappointing is seeing what's not there as opposed to what is.