King Kong is visually stunning - I mean, mindblowingly so - but it bewilders me that people would go to such astounding lengths to create a work that is so spectacular while ignoring other facets so terribly!

Don't get me wrong, I thought it worth seeing almost on the strength of the visual aspect alone. There was a terrific atmosphere in parts, Naomi's acting was wonderful, and Kong was believable as a character, never mind how stunning his presence. Yet it just didn't gel as a whole. Not for me anyhow. There were certain subplots that went nowhere and had so little pertinence to the film as a whole that they felt like awkward tack-ons. The thread of the storyline involving the theatre at the beginning was fair enough to establish Ann Darrow's predicament, but the relationship with the father-figure was developed in a very ordinary fashion, seeming a little like a belabored point rather than a natural element of the story as a whole. Hayes' mentoring of and concern for Jimmy mirrored this element. It looked like it could be interesting at first, but it was not woven into the rest of the film and just kind'a petered out, developing into nothing that had any consequence in the rest of the film.

The believability has been thoroughly reviewed: never mind 'suspending' disbelief, better to just expel it for three hours. This wouldn't be such a big deal if the whole extravaganza was developed purely as a spectacular action-ride. The problem is that it wasn't. Okay, the relationship between Kong and Ann was believable, and that can't have been easy to achieve. So big tick there. However, I'm afraid, for example, I cringed after Kong chased Jack through goodness knows how many streets of New York, finally catches him, then the oh-so-predictable pan to a conveniently located ... well, you can imagine. Then there's the small matter of getting tonnes of Kong onto a battered boat, never mind fitting him in. That's just the start really - as I said, thoroughly reviewed elsewhere.

All in all, I wish the creators could have sorted out in their own minds whether they wanted this film to be serious or not. It was most certainly no complete package for mine. Nevertheless, it is possibly the most visually spectacular film I've seen, which is saying something these days.