After watching the film, I found it was as good, and as bad as expected. The music is great, but at the same time you won't hear anything great that wasn't given away in ads and trailers. I think with musicals, giving away the best music outside the film, is kind of like giving away the plot. Basically, the only significant singing you didn't already hear (before going) is them singing pure two-way dialog. Of course a musical should be filled with music, but please don't think you can take any two-way conversation, and turn it into a duet. The "Sound of Music" is an example of how a musical *should* work in singing and dancing. Only emotional and significant character dialog should be put to music (in addition to "true" songs).

As we know from the small size of the mask, the phantom is hardly seriously disfigured (I'm not revealing anything here that's not given away in the movie billboards). He wears it like Batman's mask; a kind-of fashion statement. The key characters are hardly developed. I won't give away the Phantom's back story. But, I will tell you it's pretty lame. Remember this film is not the same as the 1943 film, which was not a musical, and did have a clear motivation for the Phantom.

One thing that really let me down, was how small the opera was. I was expecting a huge opera building, with lots of space, lots of crevasses. After all, a guy is hiding out here for many years, without detection. Turns out it's a pretty small place. OK, maybe it is as big as the "real" thing. But, I don't want reality. I want fantasy. I want bigger than life. By nature, the "Phantom's Opera House" aught to be truly grand. It should be the kind of place where you'ld be afraid to be in at night. The kind of place you could get lost in.

Now, I know my review sounds like I'm dumping on the movie. But, keep in mind I can't convey the great music, and good look, which you know about, before going to the movie. If what you've seen and heard is worth seeing for 2hours, then go see it. But please, do not see this video-cassette on a little TV. Catch it only in a theater, or on an entertainment system with great sound/video quality. That's all the film has.