Paul Kersey is now living in Los Angeles with his new girlfriend Geri and trying to get his life on track with his traumatically sacred daughter Carol. One day on an outing, Paul is mugged by some punks and tries to fight back with little avail. For that they want revenge, and find out were he lives through his stolen wallet. They break in and brutally rape his maid. When he and his daughter arrive they knock him out and kidnap his daughter. It's not too long when Kersey hears from the police that they found his daughter dead. So now instead of leaving it to the police, he takes it upon himself to make sure these punks pay the ultimate price. 

Heck if the original offended you, don't touch this one even with a stick. Michael Winner's follow up to his cynically biting vigilante thriller "Death Wish (1974)", is one nasty piece of work that surpasses the predecessor in its harshly sordid and violently nihilistic exploitative nature. Winner's stringent direction doesn't hold back at all and the relentlessly jarring rape scene involving a maid is a true indicator of pushing the boundaries. It was eight years before Winner reunited with Charles Bronson to bring us the first trashy sequel (of the five piece franchise) looking to eventually pickpocket the success of the original and urban vigilante films (like "The Exterminator (1980)") that were flooding the screens at the time. 

While the premise is a basic rehash of the first, there is a change of pace of sorts within the context. Instead here we get a b-grade, cold-blooded revenge tale that's only aimed at those responsible or somehow linked to the accused punks. Most of the picture involves Kersey face hunting and oddly enough, happening to come by those involved to simply waste them. The whole moral dilemma of killing (with the addiction-like qualities) for Kersey and that of a failing law and order system effectively worked in the original (even though it wasn't perfect). This was also broken up by nice dabs of black humour. On this occasion all of this its mostly swept aside for a straight-out and unsavoury thriller of the primitively depraved kind. Where the robot-like Kersey takes no time to get on with it with varying results and really stretches creditability. Losing out too it and what could have benefited the film was a wicked sense of humour. I thought there was too little of it here. The sequel also tries to tie back into the original's roots when Vincent Gardenia (the NY detective of the original) makes a return to help out the LAPD with their vigilante problem. Gardenia is superb again in a mild turn as his grizzled Det. Frank Ochoa character. Leading the show is a reliably lean and calculated Charles Bronson performance. He truly sticks it out with great vigour and can easily create empathy for his weathered soul. His not much for words, but the heartache tells just in his actions. Starring opposite of him is his wife Jill Ireland. She's modest as Kersey's girlfriend Geri, but the romance between the two became pretty much dead-weight. The punks of this story are extremely tacky. Thomas F. Duffy stood out as one wild and unstoppable nut. Look out in the gang for a young eccentric Laurence Fishburne wearing a rather flashy pair of pink sunnies. 

Economical direction, without being too flashy is Winner's strong point. He manages to display such a polish tinge to something that probably doesn't deserve to be and keeps it all pretty tight. What was the film's most successful aspect surely would have to be the forebodingly uncanny and wired rock score by Led Zeppelin's Jimmy Page. He carried off one sickening killer instrumental tune after another to compliment the tenaciously wounding images and overall charged up feel in the air. 

The very notorious "Death Wish II" is full of bloodlust, indecent groping and plain unpleasantness. This would be the uncut version, though. A reasonable (although repellent) addition to the series.