Days of Being Wild is the one of Wong Kar Wai's films in his portfolio which introduces and usually hypnotizes them under his genius. It also is the film that truly made Wong Kar Wai the filmmaker he is today with the respect he deserves. The film features many of his usual themes of alienation and separation though, unlike his other films, it marries Western and Eastern film-making to create a hybrid of cinematic perfection.

Wong's story telling is usually a beautiful and emotion story broken into pieces and left for the viewer to figure out where they fit in the grand scheme of things. Days of Being Wild departs from that in a way where the story is presented linear though reminiscent of his usual style. While the story follows one character living out their life it will branch off to follow another character for a substantial amount of time and none of the stories lack emotional depth because of it. In fact, Wong's direction of his actors allows each departure to be a showcase of their acting talent as they live as there characters in their own little episodes. This presents a pragmatism which hints back to Wong's usual style.

Many of the "episodes" intertwine which tells us something of what Wong is saying. Though the stories aren't very eventful, they are absolutely real and like in the real world, lives intertwine everyday, without even knowing their social relevance. Where Wong's idea of an overcrowded world filled with lonely people usually sends them searching for companionship, this film has them collide whether out of fate or coincidence. That even though the world is impossibly large and there are millions of people in it, it isn't a big as we think.

The story builds and builds until a violent climax which leaves the film with a shadow of unease about it. The crushed montage of events leading to the final scene leave you breathless, wanting more. The film's lasting appeal will leave anyone thinking. No wonder this is one of the more popular Wong Kar Wai film, where his other films are beautiful and real, Days of Being Wild is entertaining like an American film with an underlying Wong Kar Wai feel.