I didn't particularly enjoy this documentary, as it neither provided great insights into the most die-hard Star Trek fans (other than to disingenuously say they are "normal people" although their actions say otherwise) nor does it use parody to make the documentary funny--either way of doing it would have worked better. Instead, the film shows the Trek fans and lets them talk and then says what nice folks they are,.....BOR-INGGG!!! Where's the excitement or the tension? Nowhere,...that's where. The film is just dull and I really wish they had interviewed some of the strange Trekkies I've known--ones who kind of give you the creeps. Such as the ones who would kill another Trekkie in an argument over who was the better Enterprise Captain (believe me, these arguments can get heated). Or perhaps the ones who would skip their mother's funeral if it coincided with the release of a new Trek film--these are the folks that I wanted to see and hear more about in this film.

Despite what some other reviews say, the film did NOT make fun of or hurt the feelings of the Trekkies--quite the contrary, it was so bland because it said NOTHING.

By the way, I am a Trekkie myself. Not a 100% die-hard one or one who spends my cash on Star Trek memorabilia. But I have seen all the movies and every episode of all the Trek series and I stood in a very, very long line when the first Trek movie debuted--and I STILL wanted the movie to be edgier and actually say something! Step on a few toes or be brave to try to say something philosophical--take a few risks with this film. Instead, this documentary seems like it was only written for the Trekkies and not for a wider audience.

UPDATE: I am NOT anti-Trekkie (or Trekker) and just saw and enjoyed William Shatner's documentary "Get a Life"--and strongly recommend it because it DOES ask deeper questions. Also, surprisingly, I saw "Trekkie's 2" and liked it MUCH more than "Trekkies"--probably because it does ask 'how much is too much?'. Both these films, in my opinion, are superior to "Trekkies" and are worth seeing.