Now, I've just got to get this out in the open - I am an avid fan of the Les Miserables musical and book. But I did go into this movie with an open mind. And for about a half hour I thought it was astounding and touching.

Enter Claire Danes. Then it got astounding and awful.

I found great performances from Rush, Neeson and Thurman. The latter was especially beautiful. The scene where she shoves snow down a guy's shirt is amazing. The scenes she shares with Valjean are also moving. At that point in the story, we see a lot of character development with Neeson and Rush and their chemistry is electric (I will admit it stays that way throughout the movie). But then it just got really corny and almost unbearably slow. 

Danes looks like a really rotten actress (maybe she is) and Hans Matheson as Marius is too weird. I remember seeing him in a pitiful remake of 'Doctor Zhivago' and laughing about how ugly he was. Looks aside, he still isn't great in the part. Cosette and Marius are very bland, their relationship doesn't make any sense to me. "I see you, I kiss you, I love you" sort of thing. Five second romance. Unfortunately, it dominates the latter half of the film. Val Jean and Javert kind of get lost. I couldn't make sense of anyone's characters, relationships or motivations. What are we talking about here? What is this movie trying to talk about? A revolution? A rivalry? Where are the themes?Um, they got off the bus after the first half-hour. Sorry.

Overall, Les Miserables was disappointing and hard for me to finish. I kept thinking there were better things I could be doing with my time then suffering through two pitifully matched lovebirds cast in front of a backdrop of mashed-together Revolution. I missed Enjorlas as the real leader - I didn't buy Marius as a lover AND a fighter. Harsh ending with no falling action (sorta like Monty Python but that was meant to be corny). Pretty costumes and sets, nothing extraordinary (wasn't Neeson's hair just awful?).

Overall...eh...okay.