First I should say that Sam Peckinpah is, without a doubt, my favorite director of all time. Sure, his films are not perfect by any stretch, but I have never come across any other film maker whose failures fascinate me just as much as his successes. Peckinpah lived, breathed, and truly embodied his art, and so much of his personality is stamped over each and every one of his films that even the ones he himself wasn't too keen on doing ('Convoy', for example) truly add up to an endlessly fascinating, true body of work.

And after repeat viewings of all his films, it is 'Alfredo Garcia' that I find myself championing time and time again. Sure, 'The Wild Bunch' is considered his one masterpiece, and 'Straw Dogs' deserves its rep as the revenge film other revenge films want to be, and even 'Ride The High Country' gets kudos from viewers who didn't think they liked Peckinpah, but 'Alfredo' stands head and shoulders over them all.

It takes a little patience, believe me - the first time I watched this film, I wasn't too impressed, and was unsure exactly what to make of it - but so much of it stayed with me that when I gave it a second, more fair chance, I embraced all of it. It is definitely one of a kind, and although it was promoted initially as something of a 'Sierra Madre' type, it is even more devastating and hopeless than that classic.

Warren Oates gives the performance of his career (which in itself is saying something, as he is one of the finest and most under-appreciated actors in history, as far as I'm concerned) and is well matched by Isela Vega. Gig Young and Robert Weber make quite an impression as a couple of brutal hit men as well, and the supporting cast is rounded out with the same sort of perfect bit casting Peckinpah was always a pro at.

As for the plot, the less you know about this movie, the better. Just know that while it most definitely is not for all tastes, discriminating film buffs and serious cinephiles should either see this movie if they've never seen it before, or see it again if it's been a while. A true classic, one of my very favorites of all time ... I cannot heap enough praise on this one.