'Red Eye', this year's thrilling surprise, weaves a tale of suspense and horror. It works magic at the hands of masterful Wes Craven, who establishes a thick and edgy atmosphere throughout. It's effective on many, nail-biting levels, which makes it one of Craven's best pieces of work.

Lisa (Rachel McAdams) Reisert is a people-pleaser. She works at a hotel, where most of her life revolves around. But when her grandmother dies, and as Lisa prepares to fly home taking the red eye, she meets Jackson (Cillian Murphy), a seemingly charming man whom she encounters not once, but twice before her plane boards only to find that she is seated in the seat next to Jackson's. Moments after takeoff, Jackson drops his act and reveals himself as a man who is involved in a plan to kill the Deputy Secretary of Homeland Security, and it's Lisa who must set the plan into action... or else her father will be murdered. And at 30,000 feet, there's no where to run. Nowhere to get help.

Rachel McAdams and Cillian Murphy, who are both rising stars, take center stage in Craven's twisted psychological thriller. Coming off of her success from the films 'The Notebook' and 'Mean Girls', McAdams once again proves that she's no one-genre woman. And Cillian Murphy, who recently had a similar villain's role in 'Batman Returns', tops things off with a creepy and menacing performance.

Clocking in at a slim 85 minutes, 'Red Eye' seems to be divided into two halves. On once side, Crave works flawlessly in his master story-telling ability. With a well-written script, it crafts and sustains a surprisingly tense story. And for its first half-hour, it reaps of nail-bitingly good psychological suspense in the realms of claustrophobia. When the film turns the table from psychological mystery to action, the film grabs you and jolts you on a roller-coaster of armrest grabbing fun.

It's not a flashy, big-budget frightfest, and in that sense it is a minor film. But executed with such mastery that only Wes Craven could produce, it raises a B-level story to remarkable heights, only short of brilliance. It's an extremely sophisticated film that pushes the breaking limit more than once, but moves at such a speed that there's no time to lag behind. It brings a wholly unique idea to screen that terrifies with a smile.

Undoubtedly one of the year's best films, and undoubtedly one of Craven's best and most masterful pieces of work. It takes a typical genre and uses it to address current fears, while setting a brisk pace that's much more satisfying than it probably should be. It's thoroughly enthralling that's surprisingly smart and grippingly taut, free of easy plot turns. And through 'Red Eye' we see that sometimes the simple is more effective and refreshing. Leave it to Wes Craven to give us an experience that's nail-bitingingly good and edge-of-your-seat tense all under 90 minutes. It's a tightly-wound adventure that's well worth the price of admission.