To speak of George Romero's debut is to speak of one of the most influential movies in the horror genre. This small low budget flick is the direct heir of the 50s sci-fi horror and of Hitchcock's thrillers, and it sets the tone for what the 70s would bring to the cinema.

It is indeed, a product of its time, as it was made in a time of changes and revolutions. This landmark of independent film-making is a true jewel that should be the text book for every aspiring filmmaker, as well as a movie that every horror fan must have in their collection.

The plot is amazing in simplicity, a couple of siblings visit the grave of their father when suddenly, a man attacks them and kills the older brother. Barbara (played by Judith O'Dea), his sister, runs away looking for help, only to find herself locked in a house as she notices that the killer was just one of the many living dead who are rising from the grave to eat people.

It does seem like a simple story, but that is just because the zombies are only the plot device to gather inside the house a diverse group of people, and Romero goes on exploring the human relationships and the nature of good and evil. The movie is like the direct heir of Hitchcock's "The Birds", where a similar device is used to gather the characters and explore them.

Besides the similitude with "The Birds", Romero goes boldly to new levels, trading the Hitchcocknian suspense for visceral horror, giving us the basis for gore in horror movies. The movie is very violent for its time, and sets the tone for the 70s explosion of horror movies.

The acting is surprisingly good, considering that the actors had few or none acting experience. Duane Jones as Ben, gives a larger than life performance, and it is amazing the job he does with the role.

The ending is still powerful and its social cometary (something that Romero always tries to put in his movies, with mixed results), is still valid today.

Overall a classic, Romero would create his masterpiece a few years later with "Dawn of the Dead", my only complain is that it seems that he'll never top those achievements again. 9/10