Some big-mouthed, coke-head Wayne Newton of the American mob world is moving to make a coup on the king. So, on his deathbed, the ailing Don puts a million dollar contract on the schmuck to the person that brings him his heart. The FBI is looking to take the upstart, Buddy "Aces" Israel (Jeremy Piven), into custody to bring down the mob on this side of the Atlantic. Israel's lawyer hires bail bondsmen to drag him back to Vegas to negotiate with the feds. Meanwhile, word leaks of the seven figure bounty and several of the world's craziest and brazen hit men descend on Lake Tahoe and his supposedly discrete penthouse locale to collect, dead or alive. Mayhem ensues. Sound interesting? It isn't.

What sounds as though it could have had the potential to be a slick, stylish mob and/or action film falls flat on its face because it has absolutely no idea in which direction it wants to go. Is it a mob film? Is it a shoot 'em up? Is it a comedy, or are we supposed to be in suspense? Are we just supposed to be awestruck by the various absurd arsenals of deception and large-calibre weaponry of our barely introduced assassins? Who is the focus of this picture? The dying Don? The FBI and its agents? The hit men? Buddy Israel? The answer? There isn't one.

The movie bounces around between several dozen characters whilst everyone descends on Tahoe. Once they get there all hell breaks loose, and it ends in an incomprehensible, bloody mess and what little semblance of a plot looses all momentum. Then to top it all off, Joe Carnahan - the writer and director - tosses in a bit of a morality tale, trying to turn it all into an allegory of America's current foreign policy.

The fact of the matter is that this movie tries to be so many different things simultaneously, that it isn't really anything. The story isn't clever, it certainly isn't cohesive, and the characters are flatter than the paper the dialog was written on - to no fault of the actors. There's a saying about a silk purse and a sow's ear that applies here. Jeremy Piven gives us the best performance in the film for two reasons: One, he's a talented performer. Two, he's the only one with enough screen time and background with which the audience is remotely able to connect.

People want to compare this to Tarantino. Don't. Think more along the lines of Tony Scott on amphetamines directing a bad combination of Bring Me the Head of Alfredo Garcia and It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World with a hackneyed Usual Suspects twist ending.

The bottom line here is that no matter what you think you're going to get with this picture, you're probably only going to get about five minutes of it. Save your money, and watch it at home in three months.