I wanted to like this one, darn it! I went crazy over the hyper-kinetic trailer which emphasized the unique style of various film stock, fever dream montages and rapid-fire editing, and apparently, that was what it was good for...a trailer. Besides the fact that the aforementioned craziness is not only on a big screen and nearly two hours long, it prevents us from getting to know the characters. The movie is called Domino, but to be honest, I knew less about her, than anybody else. The script by Richard Kelly got a lot of love online, and what is displayed in the final form seems to be ripe for a killer film...but it seems that something wasn't quite right in the execution. Don't get me wrong, I love the style that this movie employs...it's just that, like a two-ton gallon of chocolate ice cream, way too much of a good thing. I do dig the color scheme they chose, which is heavy on the yellow and green...and I really loved the casting of the film. Chris Walken is great as always, Mickey Rourke brings his usual smarmy charm to the proceedings, and there's a great American debut performance by Ramirez, as Choco. Kiera Knightly, though beautiful, seems a little bit out of her league with this one. She just doesn't seem believable as a bounty hunter to me. Fairuza Balk or Juliete Lewis would've probably done a much better job, were they "young and hot" and able to open a major Hollywood production, but alas... I do like a lot of Tony Scott's work, from The Hunger to True Romance...but he is also guilty as such hollow, vapid productions like Revenge and Enemy of the State. This should probably play better on a small screen, because the visuals are really a bit too much...though I'm sure many would disagree. This one should be known for when Tony Scott pushed his audience a bit too far, judging from the dismal box office. In summation, it seems that this type of heavily-layered visual approach works best in short form, such as Scott's BMW commercial with Gary Oldman and James Brown, or the trailer for this film itself, but not for long stretches of time. It was also used to much better effect in moderation with Scott's last film, Man On Fire. Hopefully with his next film, Deja Vu, he'll be wary of this and he'll have better luck with audiences.