I usually am very tolerant when it comes to being ripped of by the movie business these days, as you'd have to be. I'm like all people out there like to get value for money. This year we have seen some stinkers but my god this film takes the biscuit.......IT IS BRUTAL, END OF STORY!

I used to like IMDb (back in the day) when it got legitimate reviews on films by semi-intelligent people but now it's subjected to some seriously dodgy and misleading information. Me thinks ol' Hollywood is paying people to do sparkling reviews on their films. "PARONOYA" I hear you cry but why would some one give a film like Snake on a Plane 10stars there is no way this could be 10stars. Even if you never saw a film before and had nothing else on which to base your score you could not take this film seriously enough for 10stars, you would just know there would have to be better films. Ridiculous comments like the one from Jawschlech with the heading "there is nothing bad about this movie". Now read through his (Jawschlech's) comment…..paragraph 2………first line………….. "this is bad". Its people like you Mr. Jawschlech that are responsible for the state of films today. The film industry has it too easy these days cos of the likes of you…….make them work for their money. The film industry just keeps the rubbish coming and we keep paying thinking that it may be OK. I think Hollywood is giving us quantity with no quality. I think there theory is "throw enough stuff and some of it'll stick" and make a profit.

If your looking for a funny, ridiculous film with an intended for a moron…….I can recommend a hundred other films like "blazing saddles". There! I've just saved you and your mates the price of a film ticket.

Did anyone ever watch the stars being interviewed on this film; they don't even know what it's about! They think it's a laughable shambles.

You'll probably have to dig through the archives to find this review even if it does get posted by IMDb but if you do find this review…… Take my advice – DON'T GO WATCH THIS FILM