Time changes everything, even the way we look at movies that were once so esteemed. Nothing about THE INFORMER is subtle. It's all told in the broadest way possible--even Max Steiner's score only punctuates the dismal feel of the whole maudlin story.

Victor McLaglen is "the informer" in Dublin during "the troubles" (when weren't they in trouble???), and it's quite a melodramatic turn he does here as the brute of an Irishman who drowns his paranoid feelings of guilt with any drop of whiskey available, in what was to become a typical Victor McLaglen hard-drinking trait in many a John Ford film.

Wallace Ford is the friend he squeals on; Una O'Connor is the mournful mother of the dead man who does a complete turn at the end of the film and forgives her son's killer in the film's most implausible and contrived moment; Preston Foster is the Commandant in charge of finding out the name of the informer; and Heather Angel is the girl whose brother has been killed. J.M. Kerrigan does a good job as the little hanger-on of a man who praises McLaglen as long as he has money to throw around after the foul deed--a sad commentary on human nature.

But for a film that has been acclaimed for years as a John Ford masterpiece, it is no such thing. It's a trial to watch with some of the dialog so over the top into cornball territory that you won't know whether to laugh or cry. The script has a simplistic view of the Irish Rebellion of 1922 and their troubles and the film's ending is more laughable than poignant.

McGlaglen is either tipsy or staggeringly drunk through the entire performance, much as he is in many a John Ford film--except that here he was an awarded an Oscar for his performance. I suppose it's an Irish trait that can't be denied--but Ford's insistence on magnifying the drinking habits of his traitorous protagonist gets a bit wearisome before the story is half told. 

By today's standards, not the classic it once was. The soundtrack makes scant use of Max Steiner's score which won an Oscar as did John Ford's direction.