First this movie seems exhilarating but if you really think about it, the movie is quite awful. From what I see the costumes, scenery are well done and the actors are all beautiful looking. But once again, and this is what I hate about Hollywood, they show that women are only a sex symbol; an item for pleasure. Now you're probably crying about that he {Jean-Baptiste Grenouille} wanted their {the woman's} souls, but have you ever asked yourself why he never murdered a man, if it was really the soul he was after?

Most of you will say I need to be more open minded or that I don't understand the plot, or that I "judge books by their cover". But please tell me, what does the plot really mean, what does this movie want to teach the audience? Also, what good feeling will come to me when the trailer already exposes the horror of the film? What good feeling will I have when I watch this disturbing film, only to see if my thoughts were correct? What enlightenment does one receive to see a crazy man who is driven by his passions; having no self control?

This movie shows so well how women are abused in today's society. These kinds of movies are what motivate rape crimes! Just like the modern "fashionable clothing" we see women wearing now-a-days.

Women are Beings with feelings, heart and soul. We woman deserve more respect.

The correct action for woman to take is to stand up and destroy this abuse. Shame to those who see nothing bad about this movie, shame to those who do not see the corrupted society who has destroyed woman's femininity, our motherhood and gentleness!

After the war woman achieved equal rights to men, women received the right to vote, to get an education, and so on. This is not wrong but it has gotten too far. The point is women are not equal to men. The truth is that we are different, but this does NOT make us less deserving then men, this does NOT make us less; being who we are is what makes us special!

The movie, Perfume: A story of a murderer displays that women are just for pleasure, and in order to get to this pleasure one would even kill to possess it. This so dreadfully wrong!

I have heard how women complain; trying everything just to be equal to men, how they demand more respect, but then why do they not start protesting when a woman is looked at as a sex object? Why not protest against all the abusive advertising of women? Pornography? Gender change? Etc.

We women demand respect but first we also need to realize that by achieving it, we need to first respect ourselves. We need to realize who we are and why we are the beings we are. We need to show the world that we are not a sex object!

I for one am very offended and from seeing just the trailer will not be going to see the movie, even if the actors are good looking and even though I am tempted just to see it for the fun of it - but I will NOT see this movie because it degrades women and the true role of a man.

It is up to you now to decide, whether to like this movie because of the handsome faces and strange excitement; or to abolish it, despite the nagging of amusement.