As a child, I read Erle Stanley Gardner's novels & short stories about Perry Mason because I had seen this TV series. When I read the novels, I was amazed at the details about the characters & the details about law Gardner has carefully crafted into his formula for every one. As I read them, I realized that the folks responsible for this series must have read them too. Raymond Burr when he was this age fits Erle's physical description of Mason perfectly. Sometimes the novels had Mason doing more physical work than the TV show but that might be more due to the time constraints of television. I am so happy to see the DVD's of the first season finally coming out. It is long overdue to get this series out (& even more so another series from the 1960's in this genre E. G. Marshall's THE DEFENDERS - oh I wish this one would come out too!). 

All the characters in the novel are so well cast & portrayed by the cast in this old series- it is incredible. Lt. Tragg, Hamilton Burger, Paul Drake, Della Street - all fit Erle Gardner's novel depictions so well. These first seasons as they come out are mostly Erle Gardner's material (somwhere about 75 to 90% of them) & that especially adds to the enjoyment. It's wasn't until the 3rd or 4th season that they had to get away from the master author's material. Mason as drawn by Gardner & portrayed by Burr is the ultimate American Hero. He can do it all whether it calls for physical work & especially the brain work. Burr's demeanor in these court trials is always fantastic. Get out & get the DVD's which I understand have the episodes restored to the original length as many were cut short during airings over the years to fit in more commercials. This is a bonus as sometimes vital clues & facts in episodes were cut in order to promote the channels budget running them. Then get ready for our all American legal hero- Perry Mason - to get another confession from the guilty person at the trial. Watch too for some of the suspects as you will see some folks on the stand getting grilled by Mason who later went on to become famous in other roles. Seeing them quake & quiver on the stand is great entertainment. Television couldn't get any better than this in the court room.