Harvey Pekar (Paul Giamatti) is a lonely, ordinary but smart guy living in the slums of Cleveland. He works as a file clerk at the V.A. Hostipal. After being married twice... he feels, there's something more to life than being an 8 to 5 file clerk. When he meets underground artist named Robert Crumb (James Urbaniak), it inspired him to make his own drownings but especially writing everyday life as a comic strip. When Crumb read his amateur comics, he enjoyed it so much. He decides to help Harvey to sell it as a possible comic book. Harvey is thrill with the idea. Harvey's comic book sales and it is titled "American Splendor". He used himself, his friends and strangers he meets to be characters on his comic book. But then Harvey falls in love with Joyce Brabner (Hope Davis), an intelligent if somewhat odd woman... who loves Harvey's comics. Then life for Harvey and Joyce truly beings.

Written and Directed by Shari Springer Berman and Robert Pulcini (The Nanny Diaries) made an enjoying, true to life tale about the everyday life's of ordinary people. This film is based on real people, even the real-life characters appears as themselves time to time... to tell the stories about themselves and life. 2003... it was an very poor year for movies expect for the expectations of this movie as well for "Mystic River", "Kill Bill Vol.1", "The Lord of the Rings:Return of the King" and even the remake of the underrated "Willard" or guilty pleasures like "Freddy Vs. Jason", "Final Destination 2" or "Dreamcatcher". But "American Splendor" is way up there and it was my favorite movie, i seen that year. Well... actually in 2004, when i seen it in a movie channel and then i said, why in the hell... i didn't rented this. I was far away from a movie theater like 800 Kilometers at least.

DVD has an sharp anamorphic Widescreen (1.78:1) transfer and an good Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. DVD's best feature is the running commentary track by the filmmakers, actor:Giamatti & Judah Friedlander as Toby Radloff and the real characters from the movie like Harvey Pekar, Joyce Brabner, Toby Radloff (A real genuine nerd) and Danielle Batone (Harvey's and Joyce's step-daughter). DVD also includes an brief featurette about Pekar's movie year, original theatrical trailer, downloads for your PC and a hidden feature. "American Splendor" is a movie that everyone should see and it has something that everyone could related to life. Don't miss it. The filmmaker received an Oscar nominated for Best Adapated Screenplay and i think, they should have won. (**** 1/2 out of *****).