Well Halloween II is a very respectable sequel to its classic predecessor, and probably the scariest horror sequel ever produced. However this has to be the most unrealistic film of the Halloween series. Halloween II seems to have had a major number of flaws. 

To start out the window that Michael falls out of in the pre credits is different from the one he fell out of at the end of the first film. Afew minutes later Dr. Loomis claims that he shot Michael six times when it was actually a total of seven. Later on Michael makes his way to the hospital where Laurie is in her convalescence from her previous encounter from the masked fiend. 

The hospital is where most of the goof ups are obviously noticed. Haddonfield Memorial must be the most laid back hospital in the world. What do we notice about this hospital. Well here are a few examples: There seems to be only one doctor and he performs his duties while under the influence. Laurie might as well of had Michael work on her. There are only 4 nurses and 1 security guard. It also seems to be legal for paramedics to smoke some weed in the break room. It's no wonder why Michael was able to sneak in undetected and dispatch nearly everyone in the hospital. 

The hospital seems to be so quiet that two staff members get a chance to fraternize with each other in the facility's therapy tub. Well the hot tub scene may be the most memorable scene of the entire Halloween series. Yes, the actress who portrayed nurse Karen sure had a fine body for the early '80's. I wish I could work at a hospital with such a lovely nurse. It's a shame her demise had to be so gruesome and agonizing. After all her it wasn't her idea to go mess around in the hot tub. Maybe she got it that way for picking such a crude and obnoxious jerk for a boyfriend. She should've chosen Jimmy instead. 

While Michael is having his way at the hospital, the police and Dr. Loomis are trying to figure out where exactly Michael Myers may be. Here is where we have some more flaws. The Haddonfield Police seem to be just as inept as the medical staff at the hospital. Not only did they not question Laurie about what happened, they didn't even think about Myers being in the hospital at all. If a suspect has been shot the hospital would be an obvious choice to look, or at least inform the hospital to put out an APB as well as other locations. 

As we near the climax of the film Dr. Loomis is on his way back to Smith Grove due to orders from the governor. While he is in the marshal's car the nurse tells him the shocking news that Laurie Strode is Michael's sister and that's why he came home to Haddonfield. Loomis forces the Marshal to return to Haddonfield in an attempt save Laurie and stop Michael.

Well this is where most of us thought the series at least with Michael Myers was officially over. Dr. Loomis decides to blow up the room that he and Laurie are hiding in due to fact the Loomis opened up the the oxygen tanks. This is when we assume that both the doctor and his seemingly supernatural patient burn to death. 

Obviously, when Halloween 4 comes out we learn that both of them have miraculously survived the inferno. If anybody is wondering about the third installment, it's a completely different story from the other films in the Halloween franchise. 

Despite the film taking place on the same night from the original film, Halloween II had it's fair share scares and suspense to make it a very respectable slasher film. For anybody who is into the old school horror icons such as Michael and Jason from the Friday the 13th films, I'd definitely recommend watching this one if you haven't seen this one yet.