As long as there are sandals, swords and battlefields, and as long as people want to make movies about these things, Orlando Bloom will probably always do alright for himself financially. In Ridley Scott's Kingdom of Heaven he is a blacksmith turned warrior who sets out to Jerusalem on a crusade to get in touch with god and to be forgiven for his sins. Kingdom of Heaven refers to this holy place and documents Balian's (that's Bloom) life as a soldier--leader--lover and man. It interweaves glorious battles with brooding drama, love with hate and politics with religion. In short, it is big, bigger, epic.

No one really knows what happened in the Holy Land during the Dark Ages or why it happened, just that it laid the way for a conflict between Europe and the East that still exists today. There are numerous sides of the story, and this is one of them as told by Ridley Scott. He is possibly my favourite director and there is no one I trust more to craft epic war sagas like this. 

That is why I was slightly disappointed in the end product. Kingdom of Heaven is a two and a half hour long adventure and yes, it does feel every bit as long. Perhaps that is because it has more depth than Scott's Gladiator, and is much more introspective in both approach and mood. Unfortunately, this also makes it a bit more difficult to get into and the biggest problem is that there is a lack of cinematic harmony in the film - that is, no traceable thread throughout to bring about balance; it's just a series of scenes. The dialogue is so serious that it ends up placeholder and you feel the weight of such heavy conflict in the film at all times and Kingdom of Heaven does not offer relief to this intense mood.

I don't know whose genius idea it was to cast Orlando Bloom as the lead but I imagine the person must have gone: "Alright, we need a young handsome guy who can swing a sword and who's popular with the teenage girls." Hey, I know: Elf-guy! Bloom is better in this film than in anything else I have seen him in, but he still ends up as merely competent in his performance, lacking the true conviction that should have been with his character... at least toward the end.

Onto the good parts. Aside from Bloom, the cast is incredible. Even King Baldwin who is in a mask in the entire film is played by high-profile actor Edward Norton. It seems as though a respected actor has been crammed into every little supporting role, and you hear no complaints from me, because this is excellent. Jeremy Irons is fantastic. The battle-scenes are gloriously epic and The Return of the King-styled, especially when the Muslims try to breach the city of Jerusalem. It nearly becomes a pastiche of Peter Jackson at this point. Ultimately, Kingdom of Heaven is a beautiful film - but too heavy to be blockbuster material, and simply not great enough to truly get into. 

7/10