Anybody who bothers to look up other comments by me will see that I'm probably Warren Beatty's biggest fan. Besides that, I'm always willing to give anybody or anything a fair chance before passing judgment. So, when I read the horrible reviews, both by professional and non-professional critics, I figured I had to find out for myself if "Town and Country" was really that bad. Well, the verdict is out: it is really THAT bad! 

I haven't seen all of Warren's movies recently/yet, but if this isn't the biggest stinker of his career, I would be surprised. And to imagine it was shot in the very same year as the brilliant and inspired "Bulworth" is mind-boggling. "Town and Country" is a total, unfunny and uninspired, unco-ordinated chaotic mess. And it starts out quite alright. If the script had just stuck to the family situation, the clash between the generations, even when both generations are messing around with (sexual) relationships, it could have been a lot better. But now? The script ends up going nowhere (literally, when they end up in Sun Valley). Just what the heck is the movie trying to be about? Is it trying to say that EVERY man, even the most loyal one, will eventually feel the genetic need to cheat on his wife? Is it trying to say that even filthy rich and successful people have mundane problems? Is it trying to say that lessons are only learned when one risks losing everything? WHAT? 

The movie's problem isn't even its older cast as some reviewers seem to think. Older, wrinkly people exist, and yes, they even have sex, so get over it! The movie's problem is that it is totally incoherent and consists of a bunch of strung together scenes that seem for the most part to have been largely ad-libbed, as far as scripting goes. Most of the cast are real life friends (Goldie, Diane, Gary, Warren and Buck Henry). I think they should have just made a home movie and spared us this waste of time and talent. 

Dear God, please let Warren come up with another great thing like "Bulworth" to end his career with a big bang, instead of letting it whither to a halt with this monstrosity.