The courageous and tenacious men, women and children in LONESOME DOVE were tasked with the demands of living and succeeding in the harsh, unforgiving 19th Century West. Life did not forgive error; you could not dial 9-11 when trouble came along. Nor were food stamps available. There were no safety nets. 

Liberty was something you had to be ready to fight for. And the West was a good place in which to escape and hide, even to run away from yourself. Example: the murderous gang of outlaws, driven to excess by their psychotic leader, Dan Suggs. 

I prefer to see my favorite characters in the context of history:

1. Po Campo: A true Mystic - a cauldron seething beneath a placid, fatalistic exterior. Choosing to walk instead of riding on the back of an animal, he is imbued with philosopher Miguel De Unamuno's TRAGIC SENSE OF LIFE. After deciding that Po Campo could cook and hiring him, Gus soon realized what sort of man he was, a fellow philosopher. But he was a bit too abstract for old' down to earth Woodrow.

2. Woodrow: This is the sort of man who creates something out of nothing and builds empires, no matter what the personal sacrifice. Emotions are a waste of time. I noted with interest the deference he accorded Gus, seemingly indifferent to his frequent indolence. But he knew that when things got tough, Gus would deliver. Woodrow did his thinking quietly, but once he made up his mind, that was the direction he took, no matter what. And, you didn't want to get Woodrow riled, did you?

3. Blue Duck: The embodiment of malevolence, savagery and cunning, he'd be a career criminal in any epoch. Note that the one person he truly feared was Gus. Frederic Forrest was perfectly cast.

4. Joshua Deets: He was a slave of History, as Ceszlaw Milosz put it. I believe that he was the equal of Gus and Woodrow. He courageously took what came his way and ran with it. He knew the great trust and value that Gus and Woodrow placed in him. He, in turn, gave them his undivided loyalty. 

Gus and Woodrow, so different in personality and temperament, were so strongly bonded that Clara (Angelica Houston) astutely realized that she would lose the battle for Gus's heart to Woodrow. There would never be enough left over for her, so she did not marry him.

I wonder about the defining moments of the Dynamic Duo when they served with great distinction as Texas Rangers. As lawmen, they got their orders and were expected to carry them out. They didn't have a lot of options, like building a transcontinental railroad or other such projects. No wonder they eventually got too old and founded the Hat Creek Cattle Company. And no wonder that such a life became too confining for a man like Woodrow Call. Unlike Gus, he didn't have outlets, like drinking, gambling and whoring.

The book and film, LONESOME DOVE, are remarkable achievements.