In 1964, a small time director named Sergio Leone, unknown in America, directed A Fistful of Dollars and would subsequently change the way the world looked at 'westerns' forever. Up until this time, westerns consisted of the perfect hero, who was invincible and always did the right thing; a knight who traded in his shining armor for cowboy boots. It was the duty of this morally outstanding superman to take on the despicable villain, complete with a black hat, save the girl, and ride off into the sunset. Then came Leone, who gave us stories and characters that were not black and white, good and evil, but rather a grey reality. Leone's protagonist, the so-called 'man with no name' (as played by Clint Eastwood), did not always do the right thing. He was not the noble sheriff or marshal, but instead a mysterious stranger looking for a buck. In fact, in the third film The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly, there is only a thin line separating the 'good' from the 'bad' and 'ugly'. Leone's revolutionary westerns did not stop there. His cinematography would become his calling card- beautiful panoramic shots of big country combined with extreme close-ups, what has been described as using the faces of the characters as second landscapes. Throughout his career, Sergio Leone would work with one of the greatest composers of the 20th century, Ennio Morricone. Morricone's use of harmonicas, chimes, and amplified guitars (just to name a few) along with natural sounds, such as the creaks of a windmill, would become a trademark of not just Leone, but the entire Italian 'spaghetti' western sub-genre. It is in 1968 that Leone would direct a new project, leaving the "man with no name' series behind. This new project, Once Upon a Time in the West, would combine the traditional western with the groundbreaking work in his previous three films to create an epic masterpiece, true cinematic art.

Story Once Upon a Time in the West tells the story of five characters, all intertwined by property just made valuable by the railroad. A mysterious drifter called Harmonica (Bronson) comes to the town of Flagstone, but this time not for the allure of money. Harmonica is after revenge, and a central element of the film is Harmonica's past. In one of the boldest, most brilliant casting moves ever, Henry Fonda plays Frank, an emotionless killer working for the crippled railroad baron Morton (Ferzetti). Frank and Morton plan to take the newly valuable McBain property, and blame it on the notorious criminal Cheyenne (Robards). But the true star is Claudia Cardinale, playing Jill McBain, the beautiful prostitute who marries Brett McBain, owner of the property. The casting works perfectly. Bronson gives a distinct feel to the 'drifter' character. Ferzetti has this aristocratic look to him, perfect for the power player Morton. Robards is both rugged and comedic, the type of guy who can crack a joke one minute and wipeout a gang of lawmen the next. Cardinale is beyond gorgeous. And then we have Henry Fonda, who destroyed his beloved, wholesome image and portrayed one of the top villains in movie history.

Cinematography In OUATITW, we see the evolution of Leone. The cinematography is perfect. This truly is one of the most beautiful films I have ever seen, ranking right up there with 2001: A Space Odyssey. Wide shots of the beautiful, open country side lends to the epic, opera-like feel. To portray emotion, Leone used close-ups of the actors' faces rather than dialogue. His style takes the old saying 'a picture is worth a 1000 words' and uses it in the most brilliant way. Often times we need only to see the expression on the character's face to understand the situation, not forced dialogue. Once Upon is a masterpiece of pacing. The film progresses slowly, but in a dramatic, epic way. The opening scene is an example of his genius. We are introduced to three gunfighters waiting at the train station, with only noises in the background, such as the creaking of a windmill. The three men are silently waiting for the looming confrontation with whatever or whoever is on the next train. The camera zooms in on the men's faces, and WAM, the train comes in with a deafening screech. One could never guess that a 12-minute opening, with almost no dialogue, could be so powerful and tension building.

Sound You cannot discuss a Leone film without discussing the sound. Ennio Morricone composed all of the film's music before a single scene was shot. The actors act to the music, scenes are shot to the music. Unlike the Eastwood trilogy where there would many pieces and themes, there are only a few themes for the central characters and they are used repeatedly. Bronson's harmonica theme is haunting; Fonda's theme featuring amplified guitar is the definition of amazing; Robard's humorous banjo theme is a refreshing break between the intensity; and Cardinale's romantic theme is just as beautiful as she is. Morricone's music definitely surpasses the previous trilogy in its ability to set the mood, and become like an additional character, an additional setting. The use of natural sound is superb, from the flight of birds to the trotting of horses.

Overall The camera work is perfect, the music and sound is incredible, the acting is excellent, and the pacing is genius. As you can so obviously tell, this is one those classics that you will never forget in your lifetime. The opening scene, Frank's introduction, the image of a blurry Frank walking behind a desert background, the showdown, all are imbedded into my brain. There are movies, meant to make money and entertain, and then there are films, art. Once Upon A Time in the West is art in its purest form.