"The Rocky Horror Picture Show" is not one of the most greatly directed movies ever. Actually it is, by the merits of direction, mostly mediocre. But, unlike most mediocre films, TRHPS is not a mediocre film. It is quite interesting.

For me, the savior of this film is, and probably always will be Tim Curry (Dr. Frank-N-Furter), who is one of the most underrated movie actors ever: He overacts, but he is one of those actors who can over act very well, actually brilliantly. He has charisma. But from some reason he never actually become a big star. Also Susan Sarandon (Janet Weiss) is absolutely fantastic, and what surprises me the most, she is still as beautiful as she was back then in 1975.

So quick plot: newly engaged Janet and Brad (Barry Bostwick) go in the mansion of Frank-N-Furter because they suffer a flat tire. At the mansion they encounter a punch of weird transsexuals from planet Transylvania. The movie is narrated by The Criminologist (Charles Gray), which has never actually made any sense for me, but it does work in the wacky atmosphere of whole film. Besides it's not about the plot, it's about the music. The movie is a musical after all.

Also there is a lot of references in older RKO horror and sci-fi films. The whole plot is actually just a huge change to make fun of old horror clichés.

But as I said, the flick is a musical, so the music does play important part in the film: so if you don't like rock'n'roll you might have hard time liking this film. But if you do, there are some great tunes in the film. My personal favorites are Time Warp song and the introduction song of Frank-N-Furter. But there is lots of tracks to choose from.

And for a note, this is a cult movie, probably the only real cult movie in the world, in the sense that people gather around in theaters, dressed up in their favorite characters, sign along with the film and know exactly how to behave with certain characters. You might not like it, but it is forth seeing for anyone who considers himself to be a movie fan. And who knows... maybe you'll even like it. I know I did. But I wouldn't dress up as Frank-N-Furter. I'm not tall enough.