This one-reel drama was produced by the Thanhauser Company of New Rochelle, New York, during its first year of existence. The storytelling technique is plain even by the standards of 1911, i.e. camera set-ups, editing, and acting are "pre-Griffith," but the result is earnest and workmanlike. The story concerns an indisputable injustice and aims squarely at the viewers' emotions. This is the sort of movie that could have been easily understood by all audiences, including new immigrants still struggling to learn English, for pantomime carries the day and title cards are sparse and simple; beyond that, the basic scenario is applicable across cultures and is still relevant today. Only in the Way is an examination of the friction that can arise between the generations when an elderly parent comes to stay with family, and although the film ends on a note of hopeful reconciliation this is the sort of conflict that seldom works out so smoothly in reality.

Our story centers on Marie, a little girl who lives with her parents and walks with the aid of a crutch. When Marie's paternal grandmother comes to stay she is delighted, but it quickly becomes clear that Marie's mother is hostile to the old woman and unhappy that she's moved in. To all appearances Grandma is a sweet lady: she brings her granddaughter a kitten and seems affectionate and mild-mannered. But when she proves to be clumsy around the house Marie's mother gives her husband a harsh ultimatum: Either She Goes or I Go. Marie's father, who is something of a wimp, promptly knuckles under and escorts his mother to a 'Home for the Aged,' where he leaves her. Little Marie is distraught about the situation, so she takes her kitten and hobbles off to find her grandmother. Ultimately, the little girl brings about a rapprochement between her mother and grandmother and all ends happily.

In a film running only 10 minutes or so there isn't much time for 'back-story,' so we have to assume that Marie's mother has some unexplained reason for the instant hostility she shows her mother-in-law, something stemming from past events. And in the finale, her sudden cheerful turn-about is just as swift and unexpected as her earlier enmity appeared to be. To put it mildly Marie's mother comes off as emotionally unstable, but that's probably because the film's brief running time didn't allow for a deeper exploration of the family dynamic. As it stands the central theme of Only in the Way is the close bond that forms between children and grandparents. It looks like a pretty good illustration of the quip attributed to comedian Sam Levenson, i.e. that the reason children and grandparents get along so well is that they have a common enemy!