Disturbia was released only last year and I consider it a full-on classic, it is on my best films rack along with classics like Big Fish, Amelie, Lord of the Rings & The Godfather.

Usually I never really feel like commenting on a movie on it's IMDb board. But I have to release my thoughts on this film. It entertains from start to finish, scaring the light out of me. I am a wimp when it comes to horror movies. Usually I don't see the point in scaring yourself. But usually I never see a film quite like DISTURBIA. I was NOT looking forward to seeing this movie, but I went because a friend wanted to, she hated it. I loved it.

A rather depressed teenager who is quite misfitted & lonely a year after witnessing his Dad's death starts spying on his neighbours noticing an incredibly attractive new girl next door & a serial killer kidnapper as well. Him, his male friend & the new girl all become close friends & attempt to solve the murder man's mystery while his mother becomes the kidnappers target.

I haven't seen Rear Window, I hear this rips off it. MY OPINION: If it truly does, why care? There are remakes & take-offs everywhere & it's bringing a great olden day tale to a new generation.

Shia LaBeaouf is greatly fitted for the lead role, his acting is great & he really makes you believe. All the characters have little hooks & characteristics that make them really enjoyable. Good characters = Great movie.

The storyline is great because it leaves big enough room for the serial killer storyline without ignoring the characters personal lives, feelings, back rounds & different story lines all together. Sure the end is expected, but not unpleasantly so.

It has just the right amount of gore, without making you feel sick but still enough for some 'squeams'. I love the movie because it's scary without being graphic, leaves you creeped out, suspensed, thrilled & yet has very little violence.

The start was not really fitting to the whole undertone of the movie & the songs chosen for scenes don't really fit. So I let it out, there are 2 flaws for an otherwise perfect (in my opinion) movie.

It manages to be a creepy psychological horror while still maintaining it's teen dramedy. For anyone who likes films with dream sequences, girls next door, surprise attacks, serial killers, depressed kids, teens solving mysteries & widows this is a must!