Oh gads, what i could list that was horrible. Lets start from the beginning, they start off with some pathetic CGI, and continuing through the movie the cgi is continuously bad. In fact my high school friend has done CGI that could match the same quality. Next the actor for Superman/Clark Kent does not match the part, his acting was... blah... no emotion, then again the amount of lines that he had in the movie were VERY minimal, especially considering he is the alleged main character. Also it almost looks like they put on a muscle suit for when he was super man, which seemed to be the only change that was noticeable between him and his alter ego. This movie, of all the superman movies or shows, had the worst comparison, i mean it was so obvious that they were the same person, even their characterization seemed the same. There seemed no distinction between mild mannered reporter and super hero. For a two and a half hour movie, there was actually very little development and to much attempts on fancy shots of super man flying. The only characters that even seemed to develop were Lex Luthor and his girlfriend, who in fact i saw the most character development in. Which is pathetic because she is simply a supporting character, not even a villain mind you, but a simple supporting character. From what i gather the makers attempted to do a movie that both appealed to the comic/TV/old movie fans, so they could go off old stuff, as well as make a self sufficient movie. They failed at both for the sole reason that they attempted to do both. Also i saw way to many attempted biblical analogies. they were there and recognizable, but they seemed forced, and just didn't quite work. I rant and rave, and feel i should save you from any more of it. So thereby i rest my case. I mean it had SO MUCH potential. They could have made it great. But rather they gave us an overly predictable, overly cliché, poorly put together movie. And so i end my review, sparing you from any more rants upon this wasted movie.