Zombi 2 saw Lucio Fulci deliver a film that took huge influence from George Romero's zombie masterpiece Dawn of the Dead (even though the great horror director claims to have been influenced by Jacques Tourneur), and Zombi Holocaust in turn takes influence from Fulci's Zombi 2. Zombi Holocaust is more than just a simple rip-off, however, as prolific director Marino Girolami finds time to implement other horror themes such as cannibal tribes and mad scientists into the plot. The film takes place in the same location as Fulci's zombie flick, and sees the undead eating people on a Caribbean island. This film very much fits into the Italian zombie sub-genre, with such treats as bad acting, worse dubbing, a rather absurd plot line and plenty of blood and guts making it into the finished product. The plot sees a mad scientist on a tropical island experimenting with life and death and ending up turning a number of the locals into zombies. We follow an expeditionary group who land on the island as they come face to face with the zombies and cannibals that live there.

If you're a fan of blood and guts, you're in the right movie. The gore is mostly comical, but it works due to the fact that it's so massively over the top. Scenes that see a zombie have its face mashed by a propeller, numerous slit throats and several sequences that see the living being eaten offer a gory treat for the horror fan. The fact that this is so much like Zombi 2 put me off a little, however, as it really does feel like you're watching a follow up rather than a supposedly original zombie film. Saying that, this film would have made a far better follow up than Fulci's own Zombi sequel. The atmosphere is well done, as the setting gives the piece an element of mystery that comes part and parcel with a lot of the Italian cannibal films. The zombie make-up is suitably disgusting and a lot of the monsters really do look like they haven't been among the living for some time. Interestingly, the central roles are taken up by Fulci collaborators Ian McCulloch (Zombi 2) and Alexandra Delli Colli (The New York Ripper), which seems quite fitting. Overall, I can't say that this is one of my favourite zombie films; but its decent enough entertainment, and there's definitely something here for zombie fans.