It seems like Hollywood has put an end to the wave of all the pompous war-movies, who flushed over us in the 2001-2003 period. This means that it is, once again, more room for movie-makers who wants to bring something with more relevance and meaning, to this genre. More room for people like Bahman Ghobadi and films like his "Lakposhtha hâm Parvaz Mikonand".

The film takes place at a refugee-camp at the border between Iraq and Turkey, during the latest war between U.S.A and Iraq, a few weeks before the invasion of the American forces. We follow a huge group of children, most of them who have lost their parents. Children who are just trying to survive, make a living and search for hope in the difficult every-days of war. One of the most central characters we meet is a young boy named Sorano, who mostly goes under the nickname "Satellite", because he is the only one at the camp who knows how to install TV-satellites. He is the leader among the children, and tries to help everyone survive. One day a girl named Agrin arrives at the camp, together with her brother (who has lost both of his arms, due to land-mines) and a little baby. During the first days, Sorano and the other children does not want much to do with the young family, who seems to be a bit strange. But after a while, Sorano wants to help them too...especially after he finds out that Agrin's brother is a clairvoyant.

The war-movies I have seen so far, has never told me much about children and what THEY experience during war. But that's exactly what "Lakposhtha hâm..." is all about, and also why I think it is one of the most important new films I've seen in a very long time. This film is telling us something that has to be told, and something that everybody should pay some of their attention to. The fact that it is set to a war that's, currently still going on, makes it even more relevant for today's viewers.

Considering the subject, "Lakposhtha hâm..." could never be a easy film to make...but Bahman Ghobadi has done an excellent job. The story is being told in a good, humanly and very authentic way. It has some brutal and uncomfortable moments, but also funny and moving moments...I think this is reflecting the childish and innocent side of the film, and is helping it becoming an even more thought-provoking experience. Having children in the leading parts of a film, is always risky and challenging. All of the central actors in "Lakposhtha hâm..." are children, but it works brilliantly. This shows that Ghobadi is a skillful director, but it also shows the talent of the child-actors.

Over all, I think "Lakposhtha hâm Parvaz Mikonand" was a very good and well-made film, without any notable flaws. But I have to say that I had mixed feelings about the way the film ended. At the same time though, I figure that it just may be symbolism by Bahman Ghobadi...a conclusion which says that war is actually just a long, empty and meaningless state, filled with fear, mourning and distant hope. But no matter how one interprets it, it's still a film I don't think people should miss out on. Give it a shot, because it just might be one of the most important films you'll ever have a chance to see.

9.0 out of 10