china movie "curse of the gold flower " cheat foreigners.

The foreigners whom unknowing Chinese history to watch china movie "curse of the gold flower "? china movie "curse of the gold flower " cheat foreigners unknowing Chinese history.

Some wrong in china movie "curse of the gold flower ".

1,The ancient Chinese always thought the mountain is a place to inter the deceased person. It certainly is considered it is the biggest taboo and inauspicious if the imperial palace constructs in front of the mountain. Such as, is it means to incantation emperor is dying early? So in ancient China, most cities is built at flat place. It is enough proof to inspect the Han dynasty city Xian, Beijing, KaiFeng.

2, This movie only has two scenes? Outside a palace scene and an indoor palace scene. Less than theater and modern drama scene. How to think it is a film to spent more than three billion Yuan? Is it big movie? 3, This imperial Palace is built nearness hillside. No people living around? No city house? Only have an imperial Palace? Emperor look like as a fairy? No eat, no drink? Living along far away people? To save money for making this movie without city wall as the war prevent? 4, Very easy to think, in the Chinese history which emperor is willing to let oneself wife reveal her breast to sway all day under the minister's eyelid? Didn't he abstain from his ministers produces evil thought to the empress? Why most Chinese emperors always have that many court eunuch? he fears that palace man have irregular to his empress or imperials.

If the empress is sick, the imperial physicians all only can account number arteries outside curtain, Cannot see including empress's face. Obviously emperor consider oneself wife is a best the beauty woman in nation, that can let other people see empress at will and easy? This is another simple common sense. No controversy .

So "curse of the gold flower " make a joke to the foreigner.

Update Jan.15th.2007 If conceives to draw off this movie magnificent scene, the clothing and reveal the breasts in the lens, we can see how it is a withered movie! Any content does not have.

The Chinese women bare half of the breasts with their small toes binding under? In ancient of china, are there such women? Ha ha! A Joke !

The ancient western women's clothing to reveal breasts is learning from ancient China? Joke!

My blog;http://bzlyb.blog.tom.com