You may develop a slight case of whiplash while watching "Intermission," but it will be a small enough price to pay for the pleasure of the experience. This is a fascinating film that ingeniously weaves together a myriad of overlapping stories whose common thread is life among the Irish working class.

The screenplay focuses on a group of seemingly unrelated people whose lives crisscross and intersect in so well crafted a way that, as the story develops, a fully connected narrative soon emerges. Through a carefully thought-out structure and pattern, writer Mark O'Rowe and director John Crowley create order out of seeming disorder, and the overlaps never feel pre-fabricated or contrived - until the end that is, and then the contrivance is used for comic effect. The overarching theme of the piece is an examination of the subtleties and complexities that make up human interactions and human relationships. There are people here from all walks of life, yet they are basically united in their desire for love, commitment and acceptance from their fellow man. A few of them veer towards the criminal and/or violent side of life but most are just ordinary Joes (and Janes) trying to make the best of the lives they've been handed. This is one of those films in which the good people triumph over their failings, the not-so-good ones get the chance to make things right, and the irredeemable ones get their richly deserved comeuppance in the end.

Colin Farrell, playing a violent, two-bit hoodlum, is the only "name" member of the cast, but the film boasts a whole gallery of fine actors and actresses who deliver heartfelt, winning performances. The film is filled with humor and sentiment and just enough action and violence to keep the whole thing contemporary and cutting edge (with the usual nod to "Pulp Fiction," of course).

The real joy of the film lies in putting yourself in the hands of the filmmakers and letting them take you wherever it is they want you to go. The trip, I promise you, will be a rewarding one.

And you'll barely feel that whiplash.