I have a buddy who has a friend who knows some guy dating a terrific gal, a transsexual, who grew up with the sister of a guy who knows someone who worked on 'Before the Devil'. I wouldn't otherwise see a film that sounds like it's going to be deep, dark, and disturbing. I try to escape those feelings, not embrace them, but this film is important. It is directed by someone who is obviously a master-craftsman. It feels like the guy who directed it could paint the canvass in any genre he desires, flawlessly, but in the end, his strokes are seamless, simple, and timeless. The script is an enigma - I can't figure out what it wants me to do with its carcass – find redemption in it? I couldn't see any at first. Is it a character study? Is it illuminating the human condition? I don't know what that condition is or even what that means. Does it give hope … or just more despair at the people and world we live in? About three-quarters of the way through it I decided that it sucked – but I went back in – I had the same feeling I have about the dark sides of my own nature – I don't want to look at them – so I don't – I walk out on life most the time – but this time – I faced it. The acting is – from everyone - in a word - two words - thoroughly breath-taking. Or is that three words? I think the actor, Ethan Hawke, whose work I know little about - is on the brink of iconic artistry - he reminds me of Sandy Dennis (who I would stalk if she were still alive) - he blew me away – until last night I thought he was just another doped up pretty boy – kind of like Tom Cruise - OK - I'm jealous - but - in a cast who all deserve critical acclaim - he will get the nod for best supporting actor - you heard it here first - I would see this film just for Ethan Hawke and he isn't even my type. In the end - a good movie is a movie that is discussed afterward - I heard that once, somewhere - and after I ripped this film apart to my friend - I had a conversation with myself - we agreed - something profound this way comes. Came?